We're closing hospitals, we're closing wards, we're closing so many because the states want to save money. 
The government made them big by adding thousands and thousands of pages of regulations. 
Look at what happened in '08, AIG, a big insurance company, Lehman Brothers, an investment bank helped to bring our economy down. 
If that's not hypocrisy, I don't know what hypocrisy is. 
Their needs to be a concerted effort to address the systemic racism in our criminal justice system. 
Republicans need to fix it and when we do, we'll be better off. 
But hundreds of companies, hundreds of deals, I used the law four times and made a tremendous thing. 
What we are doing to our sons and daughters, it is immoral. 
Our presidency our presidency will be about ending that, about enforcing the law, level the playing field for everybody, and once again reward those folks who play by the rules, and think that justice means more than just the word. 
So what my tax plan does, is it does create, especially for working families, an additional Child Tax Credit. 
Beyond that, the other facilities, we give them 24 days notice before inspecting them. 
Well, we have an authorization to use military force against terrorists. 
We need to be much more strategic on how we deal with border enforcement, border security. 
OK. One and I agree with what the secretary said, and what Governor O'Malley said. 
It is I'd say it is Islamic terrorism, and, back to the question of what we are dealing with in Iraq, when we pull back voids are filled. 
And they consorted with Barack Obama to steal from Social Security. 
We're going to win when we unite people with a hopeful, optimistic message. 
That's real moral authority that we need in the Oval Office. 
I would say that on this issue, I'm a little bit more conservative than the Secretary...
Judy, I think that the best analysis that I've seen based on Senator Sanders plans is that it would probably increase the size of the federal government by about 40%, but what is most concerning to me is that in looking at the plans let's take healthcare for example. 
And I think what he is trying to do now is save some face. 
And nobody watching at home believed that any of the moderators had any intention of voting in a Republican primary. 
And we also need to have a much more robust naval presence in that area, and I think we need to be developing strategic defense initiative because this man is going to have long-range missiles, he is going to have nuclear capabilities. 
We can't continue to be the policeman of the world. 
He used chemical weapons, he's killed, now, over a quarter of a million of his own people, and this president has done nothing. 
In the 21st century, it has to be more of a merit-based system, and that is why our legal immigration system is in need of modernization. 
You know, John Adams famously said, "facts are are stubborn things." The facts are are very, very simple. 
All we need to do is protect them, they will be in their own country. 
If we're going to lead the world, then we need to have the strongest military possible. 
Border Patrol, people that I deal with, that I talk to, they say this is what's happening. 
So that's what I'm focused on, that's what I've outlined and that's what I would do as president. 
Tremendous amounts of money is coming in through the banking system. 
We have received more individual contributions than any candidate in the history of this country up to this point. 
And it would send a signal that we're not the kind of country that I know America is. 
We need to go at the fundamental problem, and the fundamental problem is that this system is broken. 
What I said, and let me repeat it, I don't know what economists Secretary Clinton is talking to, but what I have said, and let me repeat it, that yes, the middle the family right in the middle of the economy would pay $500 dollars more in taxes, and get a reduction in their healthcare costs of $5,000 dollars. 
The president's first impulse is do this by executive order, power he doesn't have. 
To those of you in South Carolina, you know what, in Mississippi, we need a 50-state strategy so that people in South Carolina and Mississippi can get the resources that they need. 
Well, let me be clear about one thing, there's only one savior and it's not me. 
Disparaging women, disparaging hispanics, that's not a sign of strength. 
I know the insurance companies, they're friends of mine. 
And we had rising student achievement across the board, because high standards, robust accountability, ending social promotion in third grade, real school choice across the board, challenging the teachers union and beating them is the way to go. 
But when you have people that are cutting Christians' heads off, when you have a world that the border and at so many places, that it is medieval times, we've never -- it almost has to be as bad as it ever was in terms of the violence and the horror, we don't have time for tone. 
I have yet to see a proposal that you're describing that the raising the cap would apply to passive income. 
Every progressive economist who has analyzed that says that the numbers don't add up, and that's a promise that cannot be kept, and it's really important now that we are getting into the rest of the country that both of us are held to account for explaining what we are proposing because, especially with healthcare, this is not about math. 
So, if I save you $10,000 in private health insurance, and you pay a little bit more in taxes in total, there are huge savings in what your family is spending. 
Today you have millions of Americans that feel left out and out of place in their own country, struggling to live paycheck to paycheck, called bigots because they hold on to traditional values. 
I guess just for the fun of it; they want to throw money around. 
I would almost say leave it up to them, but I would be willing to check it off, and say I will not get Social Security. 
We have tremendous has been just sucked out of our country by China. 
And I stood alongside Jeff Sessions and Steve King, and we led the fight against amnesty. 
As far as the polls are concerned, Iowa, on Monday night you're going to go to a caucus site and you'll be the first Americans that vote in this election. 
[off-mike] I am feeling exactly the way I felt at the first debate. 
He is exploiting a vacuum that this administration has left in the Middle East. 
But the immediate task is to bring all interests together who want to destroy ISIS, including Russia, including Iran, including our Muslim allies to make that the major priority. 
I really put that on Assad and on the Iraqis and on the region itself. 
We are the United States of America, not the divided states. 
But when it comes to the religious institutions, they are in inviolate in my mind, and I would fight for those religious institutions. 
And and I just want to take this opportunity to say, you know, in the 2012 election, you know, we and when I say we, Republicans tore themselves apart. 
I have that message because I was a governor of a state that saw people lifted up, because we had high sustained economic growth. 
So I'm certain if you took a survey, everyone would say they would do that. 
We better understand what we're dealing with here, because that's what Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders want to double down on if they are elected. 
Today, the scientific community is virtually unanimous: climate change is real, it is caused by human activity, and we have a moral responsibility to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy and leave this planet a habitable planet for our children and our grandchildren. 
But, when I say regime change, I don't have to talk exactly what that means. 
It's much harder and riskier to put out, chapter and verse, specifically the programs you would cut to stop bankrupting our kids and grandkids. 
Over the course of my entire life, I have always fought for the same values and principles, but, like most human beings including those of us who run for office I do absorb new information. 
I'm campaigning because I think I have the right combination of what the country needs, at this point, and I think I can take the fight to the Republicans, because we cannot afford a Republican to succeed Barack Obama as president of the United States. 
and I believe I'll be the Republican nominee and I'll be the one best suited to beat Hillary Clinton, who should not be president of the United States. 
It is the future of the world and the future of our children and grandchildren. 
A consensus has said we need to strengthen and expand instant background checks, do away with this gun show loophole, that we have to address the issue of mental health, that we have to deal with the strawman purchasing issue, and that when we develop that consensus, we can finally, finally do something to address this issue. 
We are now doing an independent internal investigation to see who else was involved. 
We are not going to round up and deport 12 million people, but we're not going to hand out citizenship cards, either. 
I've heard them talk about deporting 10 or 11 people here from this country out of this country, splitting families. 
I'll get in my cars, head to the governor's mansion, order a pizza, open a beer and watch the Mets. 
As a matter of fact, you are the first hispanic candidate ever to win a caucus or primary. 
Now, perhaps the Chinese can actually accomplish that with this man who is now currently the leader, but the fact is we have to bring everything to bear. 
This country, and the middle class, bailed out Wall Street. 
That's your money, it doesn't belong to government. 
If they have not committed a crime since they've been here, make them pay a fine and some back taxes, and give them a path to legalization, never to citizenship. 
But here's something that I believe we have to do as we put together an international coalition, and that is we have to understand that the Muslim nations in the region -- Saudi Arabia, Iran, Turkey, Jordan -- all of these nations, they're going to have to get their hands dirty, their boots on the ground. 
Hopefully after the 2016 election, some of the Republicans will come to their senses and realize we are not going to deport 11 or 12 million people in this country. 
Going to have to go out and they will come back but they are going to have to go out and hopefully they get back. 
And it was hard because you looked at the pictures. 
Rebuild our military so that our so that we don't deploy people over and over again without the necessary equipment to keep them safe, to send a signal to the world that we're serious. 
We've had some very tough dealings with one another. 
Young people coming out of school, with student loans up to their eyeballs, will find instead of no jobs, two, three, four, five job opportunities. 
Your question about the first three questions you would ask in this Situation Room. 
First, despite the fact that we are the most generous country in the history of the world in allowing people to come here legally, we have people still coming illegally. 
He was a conservative, and he didn't tear down people like Donald Trump is. 
If your employer wants to buy health insurance for you, they can continue to do so from any company in America they want to buy it from. 
They do not want us to exercise religious liberty. 
I spoke for them, I raised a lot of money for the foundation. 
Let me hear if there's any difference between the Secretary and myself. 
If I'm president and there's a bill that's passed that saves lives but it has exceptions, I'll sign it. 
The first is, the evidence is now clear that the majority of people coming across the border are not from Mexico. 
Judy, one area very briefly...Where the secretary and I have a very profound difference, in the last debate and I believe in her book very good book, by the way in her book and in this last debate, she talked about getting the approval or the support or the mentoring of Henry Kissinger. 
I propose a system in which we use health empowerment accounts, which are like a health savings account with no bureaucrats. 
Well, because you can do it without profiling, Megyn, when you do it on the facts. 
You don't think the mainstream media will go crazy on that? 
That is a lot of power for six financial institutions. 
David, let me give you a little bit of background here. 
He loaded it up with debt, and his spending went through the roof. 
I think there's where we can enlist the veterans service organizations, the veterans of America, because, yes, let's fix the V.A., but we will never let it be privatized, and that is a promise. 
As far as the people that I've hired in various parts of Florida during the absolute prime season, like Palm Beach and other locations, you could not get help. 
The company is a disaster and continues to be a disaster. 
And the problem today is there's no confidence in Washington, D.C. 
If you look at what's going on, we have the highest taxes anywhere in the world. 
And we need to be focused and lift the rules of engagement so we're not sending our fighting men and women into combat with their arms tied behind their backs. 
Now, I don't think anyone on this stage would do something like that. 
Ted Cruz supported a 500-percent increase in the number of H-1 visas, the guest workers that are allowed into this country, and Ted supports doubling the number of green cards. 
The only way we're going to solve this problem is with we, the people. 
When we have a debt of that nature, it causes the Fed to change their policy, it causes the central bank to keep the the rates low, and who does does that affect? 
And then in addition to that, the American people are looking around and they see a broken criminal justice system. 
Sure, because there has been three different investigations and proven that I knew nothing. 
It's because our Marines Corps is not ready to be deployed. 
As the New York Times said, he's certainly not a moderate, but he can bring people together to solve problems. 
I do not believe a vote in 2002 is a plan to defeat ISIS in 2016. 
He creates an environment that now we're creating the most unstable situation we've had since the World War II era. 
I mean, of course that's a theoretical question, and we don't know what it would be for, and we don't know how many numbers there are. 
No, I think the idea was that president then-Senator Obama was wrong for suggesting that it is a good idea to talk to your opponents. 
And also -- also, what we should be clear about is we end up spending -- and I think the secretary knows this -- far more per capita on health care than any other major country, and our outcomes, health care outcomes are not necessarily that good. O'MALLEY: All right, Nancy, I really wish you'd come back to me on this on this one, John...
Who the hell has to lose 505 billion dollars a year? 
And by those standards, we're not doing particularly well. 
I would defund it because of the abortion factor, which they say is 3 percent. 
I think I may be able to do it, although I will say this. 
I am advocating the no-fly zone both because I think it would help us on the ground to protect Syrians; I'm also advocating it because I think it gives us some leverage in our conversations with Russia. 
Hillary Clinton has aligned herself with Barack Obama on ISIS, Iran and the economy. 
We should be putting people into Guantanamo, not emptying it out, and we shouldn't be releasing these killers who are rejoining the battlefield against the United States. 
Now, I still say the same thing, because we're doing little pinpricks. 
The first thing I don't know of anyone who's not in favor of fully vetting people that are trying to come into this country, other than perhaps Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. 
In our state, we have moved to an all-payer system. 
So I'm asking women, I'm asking men, to support me because I'm ready to go into the White House on January 20th, 2017 and get to work on both domestic and foreign policy challenges. 
It didn't pass, and we haven't solved immigration in this country. 
And why don't we do the same thing with Planned Parenthood? 
Donald Trump brought up the fact that he would he'd want to accommodate Russia. 
There is a reason it has been longstanding U.S. policy that we don't negotiate with terrorists, we don't pay ransoms. 
Because if you think about your own deductibles today, they're going higher, higher and higher. 
She was showing symptoms and coming back from a place that had the ebola virus active and she had been treating patients. 
In the crowd today is Major General James Livingston, who's the co-chairman of my campaign here in South Carolina, a Medal of Honor recipient. 
But this is what you're seeing in the Republican debate that you didn't see in that Democrat debate. 
So it's not just the government the private sector companies, it's also our own government that needs to raise the level of our game. 
I believe in government, but I believe in efficient government, not wasteful government. 
Here's the broader point, as well, and then I think it touches on what Donald just mentioned. 
I'm tired of seeing what's going on, between the border where the people flow over; people come in; they live; they shoot. 
I don't want American workers to compete against people making 56 cents an hour. 
Now, you'd have to ask yourself, why are they running ads against me? 
That should be a right of all Americans regardless of the income of their families. 
If the United States raised taxes any further, that money will leave the United States, as well. 
As president of the United States, that is exactly what I will do. 
The fact that it's happened for so many people here throughout our history, that's what makes us special. 
Every single year close to a million people emigrate to the United States legally. 
You know, we keep saying he's a wonderful governor, wonderful governor. 
And people have to know we have the confidence to lead America. 
And I think it was probably business interests that affected it. 
I'm very proud that I support legislation that is currently in the Congress, got support of almost all progressive Democrats in the House and Senate, which says we will end the absurdity of women today making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men. 
You lock the door and you say you're not coming out until you reach an agreement that both gives the security people what they need and protects the rights of Americans. 
This is the lesson learned: in history, if you bomb something and not do anything as it relates to deal with the aftermath of this, if you don't have a stable government, you get what we have in Libya. 
We're giving hundreds of millions of dollars of equipment to these people, we have no idea who they are." 
And, actually, the Governor too, let's just talk about these too, OK? 
We don't have to declare an enemy, rattle a sword or threaten, but we need to make it clear what we expect. 
That was just somethingas the secretary knows, you put titles on ads and you send them out, but there was no word in that ad, none, that said that those newspapers had endorsed us. ...Look, I hear what the Secretary said, and I understand, but look, there areall of us know that we have seen in recent years horrible, horrible crimes. 
I have a difference of opinion with Secretary Clinton on this. 
That's not going to change anything, but we can be much stronger as it relates to that. 
We ought to put missile defense interceptors in South Korea. 
I actually agree with Governor O'Malley about the need for common sense gun safety measures. 
But we have no choice if we're going to run our country properly and if we're going to be a country. 
Now, I think it is more complicated than what we've heard here tonight. 
I made the Affordable Care Act along with Jim Clyburn a better piece of legislation. 
We got 3.5 million individual contributions, $27 a piece. 
Walls do work, you just have to speak to the folks in Israel. 
And it is true that it did require that there be a process. 
You talk about someone who defended consistently the original meaning of the Constitution, who understood that the Constitution was not there to be interpreted based on the fads of the moment, but it was there to be interpreted according to its original meaning. 
I was the only one who didn't get to do that, and I've got stuff to say about it, let me tell you. 
Well, first of all, I was wrong about taking the oil subsidy. 
You look at California, you look, frankly, at Paris where there's a the strictest no-gun policy of any city anywhere in the world, and you see what happens: 130 people dead with many to follow. 
So the world is changing faster than ever, and it is disruptive. 
We are seeing millions of families unable to send their kids to college in the United States of America. 
Making public colleges and universities tuition free, that exists in countries all over the world, used to exist in the United States. 
And when you do that, when you're in a position of managing regulations; when you reduce taxes; and when you have fiscal discipline, you see the job creators begin to get very comfortable with the fact that they can invest. 
We need to help the developmentally disabled to rise, and we need to help our friends in the minority community develop entrepreneurship. 
And when it comes to the biggest counterterrorism issues that we faced in this administration, namely whether or not to go after bin Laden, I was at that table, I was exercising my judgment to advise the president on what to do, on that, on Iran, on Russia on China, on a whole raft of issues. 
And the issue is, the problem is, the front pages every day were dealing with it. 
As far as John Kerry is concerned, there has been no tougher critic of this man, I think he negotiated one of the worst deals in the history of our country, the Iran deal, where they get their $150 billion and all of the other things that take place. 
And unlike President Obama, where he refuses even to use the term of what's going on, he can't use the term for whatever reason. 
Because what she will do is come in and she will raise Social Security taxes. 
Nobody else wanted to mention the problem, I brought it up. 
When I look at the migration, I looked at the line, I said it actually on your show recently, where are the women? 
I was there in '89 when the wall came tumbling down because we were strong. 
I was not the only progressive to vote against that legislation for that reason. 
I think it's important we put this in historic context. 
And Hillary Clinton, Hillary Clinton is disqualified from being the commander-in-chief of the United States. 
Donald, you're not going to be able to insult your way to the presidency. 
The nominee of this party, if they're going to win, has got to come at it in a big way, which is pro-growth. 
That's what I'm offering and that's what I will do as president. 
It's that we may not be able to, because this is an issue we have to be 100 percent right on. 
And politicians, they're all talk, they're no action. 
I mean, you have great constitutional lawyers that say you can't run. 
One other thing Hillary Clinton take a look at USA Today, take a look at the Q poll. 
We're sitting here in this library, which is a wonderful place to talk about this, because that's exactly what happened in the 1980s, and the world was a lot safer because of...
And the reason is simple: because in 2008, we elected as president someone who wasn't interested in fixing America. 
This president has failed, and when I'm in the Oval Office, police officers will know that they will have the support of the president of the Untied States. 
And you're going to hear from all of us tonight about what our ideas are. 
I mean, I've got to tell you, I was with this little 12-year-old girl, was at a town hall meeting, and she said, you know, I don't like all this yelling and screaming at the debates. 
This president has had weak leadership, which has led to bad choices. 
I can tell you this, in the first 100 days, I will have legislation to freeze federal regulations, have them reviewed by the vice president, reduce state taxes on individuals, reduce taxes on corporations, have a fiscal plan to balance the budget, get the border protected and begin to fix Social Security in the first 100 days. 
If I'm elected president, we will not let in refugees from countries controlled by ISIS or Al Qaida. 
Now, I've learned that, what makes things work, what gets the economy going, not just in Ohio, but in Washington and it's three things. 
He proposed a 500 percent increase on guest workers. 
Well, I wouldn't change the $10 bill, I'd change the $20. 
They are bad actors, bad things are going to happen. 
Because he understands that I'm committed to a fair, and level playing field for every energy source without lobbyists, and without Washington picking winners and losers. 
I got to tell you, the biggest problem he's got is he really doesn't know about the lines. 
You don't solve it by big talk where you're banning all Muslims and making it harder for us to build the kind of coalition for us to be successful. 
And at the end, I'd give them a path to legalization, but not a path to citizenship. 
But then the IRS promulgated new regulations targeting tax preparers. 
And in my view, what we need to do is put together broad coalitions to understand that we're not going to have a political vacuum filled by terrorists, that, in fact, we are going to move steadily -- and maybe slowly -- toward democratic societies, in terms of Assad, a terrible dictator. 
Well, the only thing - the only thing I can go on Senator Sanders...
I probably described more times than I can remember how stressful it was advising the President about going after Bin Laden. 
Here's apart from the apart from the higher prices on consumers and people are living paycheck to paycheck, apart from that, there will be retaliation. 
" It's "give me options on how I can make it harder for law-abiding people to buy guns." 
And they're wondering, maybe they should come illegally. 
What we are talking about are children being poisoned. 
I'm happy to answer the question... Let me tell you how that question so you don't actually want to hear the answer, John? 
I am the only candidate running for president who is not a billionaire, who has raised substantial sums of money, and I do not have a super PAC. I am not raising money from millionaires and billionaires, and in fact, tonight, in terms of what a political revolution is about, there are 4,000 house parties 100,000 people in this country watching this debate tonight who want real change in this country. 
And you shouldn't have mentioned the polls because I would have been much...
Look, I am deeply concerned about what's happening in every community in America, and that includes white communities, where we are seeing an increase in alcoholism, addiction, earlier deaths. 
We need to deal with a no- fly zone in Syria, a safe zone. 
You have two billionaire hedge fund managers who started a super PAC and they're advertising against me in Iowa as we speak. 
Let me tell you I will tell you we have zero responsibility, because let's remember what the president said. 
And we rebuilt downtown Manhattan, and everybody in the world watched and everybody in the world loved New York and loved New Yorkers. 
If elected president, Goldman Sachs is not going to have bring forth a secretary of treasury for a Sanders administration. 
The government stole it, and spent it a long time ago...
In terms of President Obama, I think if we remember where this country was seven years ago, 800,000 jobs being lost every month, $1.4 trillion dollar deficit. 
It is expensive to raise children in the 21st century, and families that are raising children are raising the future taxpayers of the United States, and everything costs more. 
And where we are right now is we have got to stand up to the Trumps of the world who are trying to divide us up. 
Right now you have Russia, you have Iran, you have them with Assad, and you have them with Syria. 
In this instance, the order is not put a back door in everyone's cell phone. 
You know, I would note that a lot of folks in the media have a definition of hispanics that you can only be hispanic if you're liberal. 
He can't do it...for the obvious reason, and he can't do it because he doesn't know how to tell the truth. 
O'MALLEY: Andrea, I need to talk about homeland security and preparedness. 
They have children who are doing so well, I've met and worked with dreamers. 
The president tried to paint a rosy picture of jobs. 
So I think that we need to build on the work of the policing commissioner that President Obama impaneled. 
When John Kennedy was elected president in 1960, it was 26 percent. 
And many of these people are sitting right in the audience right now your lobbyist and your special interest and your donors, because the audience is packed with them, and they're packed with you. 
What we want to do, when we want to do it, and how hard do we want to hit? 
Now, number three -- and let me say this -- when Governor O'Malley was heading the Democratic Governors Association, he had no trouble at all going to Wall Street to raise money to run campaigns for Democratic governors. 
we will heal, inspire and revive America for our children.
And I appreciate greatly Senator Sanders' voting record. 
Well, there's always a retrospective to say what mistakes were made. 
Police officers must be equipped with the antidote to a heroin overdose or an opioid overdose, known as Narcan. 
It would bring the money back into the United States to help build jobs by American companies and get our economy moving again, and growing as a higher rate, and it would rebuild those roads and bridges and tunnels that you were talking about. 
And by the way, it's not just on immigration, you used to support TPA, now you say you're against it. 
It's Jesus Christ who came down to earth and died for our sins. 
I stress the pediatric part of my career because the reason that I've gotten involved in this race is because I'm very concerned about the future of our children, and the direction of our country is one that does not portend well, unless we, the people, intervene and retake our rightful place at the pinnacle. 
Hank Paulson, Bernanke came in, and they say, "guys, the economy is going to collapse because Wall Street is going under. 
" We do that, this country would be safe and secure again not only from criminals but from the terrorist who threaten us as well. 
So you're gonna be starting a trade war against your own ties and your own suits. 
Well, first of all, when we talk about the Import Export Bank, it's time to clean up corporate welfare. 
We need an executive who's been tried, has been tested, and judge the decisions that that executive makes. 
He said, "Yes, international terrorism is by definition an international issue, but it is primarily an issue of the Muslim nations who are fighting for the soul of Islam. 
And Donald has this weird pattern, when you point to his own record, he screams, "Liar, liar, liar.
We are the party of diversity, not the Democratic party. 
You know, the amendment you're talking about is one sentence it's 38 words. 
I think it's very sad that CNN leads Jeb Bush, Governor Bush, down a road by starting off virtually all the questions, "Mr. Trump this, Mister" I think it's very sad. 
In addition to that, you have the health care savings plans, which are excellent. 
Now what we have to take on is the pharmaceutical industry that is ripping off the American people every single day. 
What they need is our cooperation, and our understanding. 
And I'm not standing here today and saying that Libya is as far along as Tunisia. 
So if your question is, do I want to see that relationship become more positive in the future? 
We need the American people to know what's going on in Washington in a way that today they do not know. 
Or -- hey, just call up the American military and the American taxpayers, they're going to send the troops. 
She then became a single mom and she herself went to jail several times and she ended up spending some time in a crack house. 
I will be in Flint at the Mayor's invitation on Sunday to get an in depth briefing about what is, and is not happening. 
And if you've got expertise in the military, we're going to give you college credit or community college credit for the things that you did for our country. 
So, let's not in anyway imply here that either President Obama or myself, would in anyway not take on any vested interested, whether it's Wall Street, or drug companies, or insurance companies, or frankly, the gun lobby to stand up to do what's best for the American people. 
They're all talk, they're no action, nothing gets done. 
Yes, I do believe that now after the American people bailed Wall Street out, yes, they should pay a Wall Street speculation tax so that we can make public colleges and universities tuition-free. 
So, let's stop fooling around about this, let's tell people the truth. 
And, Donald, when I was governor, we also increased the opportunities for women. 
And the fact is, Marco, you shouldn't compare yourself to Joe Biden and you shouldn't say that that's what we're doing. 
He also did vote, as he said, for this immunity provision. 
I have proposed a health empowerment account system. 
And recognizing that it's so important, this election, because we're talking about America for the people versus America for the government. 
And we have already seen 19 million Americans get insurance. 
I have never supported legalization, and I do not intend to support legalization. 
I feel like I feel like I need I feel like I need a Washington to English dictionary converter, right? 
ARRARAS: I want to talk to you, Senator Rubio, about Puerto Rico. 
Here in New Hampshire in less than 72 hours, we are literally deciding what kind of country we will be like when they are my age. 
And so what I have proposed, number one, is a $5,000 tax credit to help people who have very large out-of-pocket costs be able to afford those. 
But, I can only repeat what is the fact that I spoke to a lot of different groups with a lot of different constituents, a lot of different kinds of members about issues that had to do with world affairs. 
And if people are interested in the specifics of this, they ought to go to jeb2016.com. 
Who is satisfied that 51% of African American young people are either unemployed, or underemployed? 
It is worth emphasizing that Iran released our hostages in 1981 the day Ronald Reagan was sworn into office. 
First, let me say there are already women today serving in roles that are like combat. 
You see, I think what the Lord wants is for to us engage, and in America, the spirit of America doesn't come from the top down. 
This is a great country, but we have many, many serious problems. 
Kathie, I think -- Kathie the...But I do take what Alan Krueger said seriously. 
And to be honest with you, this country doesn't have time either. 
They should be running all the time, then they won't have time to plan attacks against us. 
We're going to increase and actually, since Donald enjoyed that, I will simply say, I've got somebody in mind to build it. 
We have already reached our clean air goals for 2020. 
But, you know, when I look at somebody like Hillary Clinton, who sits there and tells her daughter and a government official that no, this was a terrorist attack, and then tells everybody else that it was a video. 
And, so, if there's anyone up here who would be bound by this catastrophic deal with Iran, they're giving up the core responsibility of commander in chief, and as president, I would never do that. 
The next day Michael Bloomberg, another New York billionaire, got on a plane, a commercial flight, and flew to Israel from London. 
I mean, she would drive a car until it wouldn't make a sound, and then gather up all her coins and buy a new car. 
And, you know, I do think it's important to do exactly what Senator Sanders said, and that is to start talking about the issues that the American people really care about, and that they talk to each of us about. 
And the Obama administration refuses to arm the Kurds, the pesh merga, the fighting forces who have been longtime allies. 
Two percent growth means declining income for the middle class. 
I am the only person in either campaign that's self-funding. 
They issue two thirds of the credit cards, and by the way they're ripping off a whole lot of people with high interest rates on the credit cards, and they write about one third of the mortgages. 
You have to do this with a steady hand, and I believe I have those skills. 
I did spend a whole lot of time and effort helping them rebuild. 
The issue now is do we break them ?up do we reestablish Glass-Steagall. 
So, it's like a homeowners policy with a large deductible, versus a homeowners policy where you want every scratch covered. 
The fact of the matter is, is that the Middle East has been in turmoil for thousands of years. 
I think it's fine, it's an important point that you raise and we discuss on immigration. 
Martha, that -- you know, one of the reasons why I have advocated for a no-fly zone is in order to create those safe refuges within Syria, to try to protect people on the ground both from Assad's forces, who are continuing to drop barrel bombs, and from ISIS. 
Wrong is considered right and right is considered wrong. 
That's why I'm proud that I worked in a bipartisan way. 
ISIS is now found in affiliates in over a dozen countries. 
But I think to suggest that I have voiced criticism, this blurb that you talk about, you know what the blurb said? 
That is a bad deal and an evil situation, and presidents have looked the other way. 
But I think we have got to get our foreign policies and priorities right. 
If that's all they're asking for, they are not asking for Apple to create a back door to encryption. 
There are saying the same thing is going to happen here in New Hampshire. 
We are one liberal justice away from a five-justice radical leftist majority that would undermine our religious liberty; that would undermine the right to life; and that would fundamentally erase the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms from the Constitution. 
New Hampshire, please give me a chance to carry this message forward to the United States of America. 
And, here's the difference between me and Hillary Clinton. 
Some of the business owners complained that the wages they had to pay workers went up, and from their perspective that was a bad thing. 
Now unless he was just saying that on CNN to be nice, but he did say that... 
And I know my Republican friends seem to have some amnesia on this issue, but the world's financial crisis was on the world's financial markets system was on the verge of collapse. 
And we're letting them get away with it and we can't let them get away with it. 
But like all of our problems, there isn't a single one that can't be solved with common sense if you remove the ego and the politics. 
And by the way, you know, sometimes there's a lot of drama here. 
On the one hand is the right of a woman to choose what to do with her body which is a real right. 
I do not to want see the Republicans repeal it, and I don't to want see us start over again with a contentious debate. 
I do believe that in the year 2016 we have to look in terms of public education as colleges as part of public education making public colleges and universities tuition free. 
And he got on a plane and he flew back to my mother and me. 
I said that I have answered all the questions and I will certainly be doing so again before this committee. 
It is a serious undertaking and yes, we do need more fencing and we do need to use technology, and we do need more border control. 
So I think that President Obama made a promise to the American people when he ran, and he said you know what, I'm going to do my best to bring American troops home. 
Women's income grew three times faster than the national average when I was governor. 
And now I'm the governor of Ohio, and I inherited a state that was on the brink of dying. 
He is basically an organized crime figure that runs a country, controls a $2 trillion economy. 
Well, let me say, from protecting the people of Florida from imminent domain abuse, to bringing accountability to the V.A., to the Girls Count Act, to sanctioning groups, I'm proud of my service in the United States Senate and before that, in the Florida legislature. 
People have to go out, they have to work really hard and have to get into that upper stratum. 
And Secretary Clinton, unfortunately, is on the wrong side. 
We quarantined her, she turned out to test negative ultimately after 48 hours, and we released her back to the State of Maine. 
Yeah, let me let me just suggest to everybody, and I hear last February, I said we needed to have people on the ground in a coalition with Europe and our allies. 
OK. Secretary Secretary Clinton didn't answer your question. 
We would be so much better off if Gadhafi were in charge right now. 
At the same time, law enforcement understands there are people in the community who not only think that the system doesn't work for them, but works against them. 
I don't think it was progressive to vote against Ted Kennedy's immigration reform. 
And he has blessed us with young men and women willing to risk their lives and sometimes die in uniform for the safety and security of our people. 
I also said, by the way, four years ago, three years ago, attack the oil, take the wealth away, attack the oil and keep the oil. 
Not only were we the first state in the nation to pass a living wage. 
If a business takes their money and they invest in the piece of the equipment, they get to write off their taxes. 
That's not an A. One in five children are on food stamps. 
But here's an issue that we also should talk about. 
But I think what he did in educating us should be taken into consideration before he is (inaudible). 
First and foremost, this issue has to be now more than anything else about keeping America safe. 
If the president, and if I were president now, I would certainly want to try and nominate a justice. 
Well, you should ask him questions in detail about the foreign policy issues our president will confront, because you had better be able to lead our country on the first day. 
And I'm glad that I ran, because this country's headed in the wrong direction. 
And, let me now on Social Security because we were getting into a good substantive exchange, and I want to say I think both Chris, and Mike are right. 
We inherited a system that was set up during World War II; 170 million Americans get health insurance right now through their employers. 
A college degree today, Dana, is the equivalent of what a high school degree was 50 years ago. 
You know, when I was kid growing up in a neighborhood where Dad went home at night and said, "I lost my job today", it just killed the family. 
Nobody who supports far-left liberal Democrats who are fighting for judicial activists can possibly care about having principled constitutionalists on the court. 
And I'm the only one up on this stage who back in April put forward a detailed entitlement reform plan that will save over $1 trillion, save Social Security, save Medicare, and avoid this avoid what Hillary Rodham Clinton will do to you. 
Just, for the record make sure my mother's listening, if she's watching the debate. 
So I'm going to defend Dodd-Frank and I'm going to defend President Obama for taking on Wall Street, taking on the financial industry and getting results. 
And, I'm willing to fight for those nominees to make sure that they get passed. 
The agreement on humanitarian relief now needs to be implemented, because there are enclaves that are literally filled with starving people throughout Syria. 
I would be willing to wait until freshman orientation before launching those bombs. 
20 over 40 percent of small and mid-size banks that loan money to small businesses have been wiped out over the since Dodd-Frank has passed. 
You have millions of people in this country living paycheck to paycheck, and nothing is being done about it. 
What I suggested to President Bush is to be Kennedy-esque, in the sense that when the Russians got ahead of us in the space race, what we did is use the bully pulpit to galvanize everybody, business, industry, academia behind a national goal to put a man on the moon and bring him back safely. 
Well first of all, people say that I whine a lot because I don't get time. 
I served in Washington as the chairman of the Budget Committee, and we got the budget balanced. 
And I will have done it within 100 days, and it will pass. 
All of that money could become could come right in and be used to rebuild our country, and investments in our country. 
You know, I mean you're living in a world of the make-believe, Chris, you want to know the truth. 
But it doesn't help if I start saying, "I am very pro-Israel, very pro, more than anybody on this stage." 
This government doesn't need more money to make Social Security solvent. 
O'MALLEY: ...and I encourage everybody watching this tonight to please, acknowledge that by going online at martinomalley.com and help me wage this campaign for real American capitalism. 
We need to get back to sound money, which helps, in particular, working men and women. 
And he turned America around because of that vision and ultimately because of that leadership. 
If you look at the way China and India and almost everybody takes advantage of the United States China in particular, because they're so good. 
I've done it in Washington, I've done it in Ohio, and I can go back to Washington and do it again. 
But out-of-pocket costs have gone up too much and prescription drug costs have gone through the roof. 
And then, when I won for election of governor, I was the first Republican to defeat an incumbent in 36 years, and the first person to have never run statewide out of politics for 10 years to beat an incumbent. 
But I think -- and I say this with due respect -- that I worry too much that Secretary Clinton is too much into regime change and a little bit too aggressive without knowing what the unintended consequences might be. 
And one last thing, David, which I think is really important. 
They're going to become a very weakened power, quickly. 
And also, you know, if Uncle Joe is smoking like a chimney, everybody's going to hide his cigarettes because they're all interested in what's going on there. 
Well, first of all, let me just add my praise to Justice Scalia. 
It's campaign -- a corrupt campaign finance system. 
If they hear people running for president who basically shortcut it to say we are somehow against Islam, that was one of the real contributions, despite all the other problems, that George W. Bush made after 9/11 when he basically said after going to a Mosque in Washington, we are not at war with Islam or Muslims. 
What Reagan did is he began with tax reform and regulatory reform, unleashing the engine of the American free enterprise system. 
And they're drilling a hole and digging anywhere in the world that they can get a hold of. 
He is promising if he's elected he will go and cut deals in Washington. 
The result iswas the worst financial disaster since the Great Depression. 
O'MALLEY: Kathie, this was not merely theory in Maryland. 
Well, I think one of the presidents well, the president I grew up under was Ronald Reagan. 
And when the worst natural disaster in your state's history hits you, they expect you to rebuild their state, which is what I've done. 
Well, it's probably not, maybe, legal, but, I would pick Mother Theresa, the lady that I had a chance to meet, a woman who lived a life so much bigger than her own. 
We have a proxy conflict going on between Saudi Arabia and Iran. 
And speaking of that, our Military needs to be upgraded. 
But I absolutely believe that Israel is a priority to be able to fund and keep them strong and safe after eight years of this administration. 
Every major business leader has used the I never went bankrupt, by the way, as you know, everybody knows. 
My total focus was on building up our military, building up our strength, building up our borders, making sure that China, Japan, Mexico, both at the border and in trade, no longer takes advantage of our country. 
I didn't ask for five 45-day extensions, which I would have been entitled to. 
You order televisions, you order almost anything, you're getting it from these countries. 
I've had an amazing relationship with politicians with politicians both Democrat, Republican, because I was a businessman. 
There are ways to retrain the 50 and 51-year-olds, because they've got great value. 
What we should be doing on foreign policy, you know what the problem is, Mary Katharine? 
And, boy, people ought to look at Ohio, because it has got a good formula. 
And, they've insinuated themselves into everything. 
You think about it this is the president who said, along with his secretary of state drew a red line in Syria, said, if Assad uses chemical weapons against his people, that we're going to attack. 
Today a male African-American baby born today stands a one-in-four chance of ending up in jail. 
" In this instance, there are millions of peaceful Muslims across the world, in countries like India, where there is not the problems we are seeing in nations that are controlled have territory controlled by Al Qaida or ISIS, and we should direct at the problem, focus on the problem, and defeat radical Islamic terrorism. 
What ties Americans together is we are all the children of those who risked everything for freedom. 
We do have to take a hard look at the defense budget and we do have to figure out how we get ready to fight the adversaries of the future, not the past. 
I was the grand marshall down 5th Avenue a number of years ago for the Israeli Day Parade, I have very close ties to Israel. 
I agree with the secretary that I think what has to happenand let me just mention what King Abdullah of Jordan said. 
I don't know if any of us could have done what they did, one after another, within 48 hours of that tragedy taking place. 
I was proud to lead 31 states before the U.S. Supreme Court defending the Second Amendment, and we won that landmark victory. 
The focus will be on the American people to keep them safe and secure. 
What we did say is blah blah blah blah was said by the newspaper. 
Well, I'm happy to be here in New Hampshire for this debate, as we move toward the primary on Tuesday. 
A state like New Jersey, with lots of Democrats, but still we cut taxes, we balanced budgets. 
And, I know that some of those plans could very well lead to a missile that might reach Hawaii, if not the West Coast. 
But a great nation like ours should not be in a position where elderly people are cutting their pills in half, where they don't have decent nutrition, where they can't heat their homes in the wintertime. 
And we lose that competition because we have the highest business tax rate in the industrialized world, because we have regulations that continue to grow by the billions every single week, because we have a crazy health care law that discourages companies from hiring people, but because we're not fully utilizing our energy resources, that if we did, it would bring back all kinds of growth, especially in manufacturing, and because we have an outdated higher education system. 
It costs less than virtually every other plan people have put up here, and yet it produces more growth and it's one of the very few plans that abolishes the IRS. 
Maria, you look at what this president and his secretary of state, Secretary of State Clinton, has done to get us in this spot. 
Well, I've been pretty helpful to the pro-life cause in one of the most pro-choice states in the union. 
I was down in Arizona a few weeks ago at the border. 
There are moderates in Syria who we should be supporting. 
Solving it has to occur at the state and local level with programs like A.A., and counseling, and churches and charities. 
We got to talk about what we would be willing to shut down for. 
What this is really about is not the rational way to go forward it's Medicare for all it is whether we have the guts to stand up to the private insurance companies and all of their money, and the pharmaceutical industry. 
But our very identity as a people and as a nation. 
incentives for people to keep people healthy, rather than giving the incentives to treat them when they're sick? 
A vote in 2002 is not a plan to defeat ISIS. We have to look at the threats that we face right now and we have to be prepared to take them on and defeat them. 
We've had one good day over 36 year and I think we need more good days before we move more rapidly toward any kind of normalization. 
I think I think that there is profound frustration all over this country with establishment politics. 
Just tell them that, you put people in there, we're going to bomb them. 
But I the struggle of single moms is extraordinary. 
Well, as anyone knows who's been listening to me, you know? 
For the first time in modern history, more businesses are failing than are being created. 
I spent six years as a child growing not far from where we stand tonight. 
A lot of the rights that have been won over years, from women's rights to voter rights to gay rights to worker rights, will be at risk. 
You know, one of the criticisms I've had of Senator Sanders is his suggestion that, you know, Iranian troops be used to try to end the war in Syria...and go after ISIS, which I don't think would be a good idea. 
You think defending this nation is expensive, try not defending it. 
They come up with these great marketing terms, and what they do is they pull back, and voids are filled, and they're now filled by asymmetric threats of terror, as well as nation-states on the run. 
What we have got to do there is, among other things, as I was just saying, have Silicon Valley help us to make sure that information being transmitted through the Internet or in other ways by ISIS is, in fact, discovered. 
I think we ought to put in our missile defense system. 
We should not be the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all of our people as a right of citizenship and we should not be the only major country that does not provide medical and and parental leave family and parental leave to all of our families. 
In one case, you have someone who is known as a deceitful individual. 
That's...that's...that is where educational policy belongs, because if a parent is unhappy with what their child is being taught in school, they can go to that local school board or their state legislature, or their governor and get it changed. 
We just have to keeptry to get more support for those people on the ground in Syria and Iraq who have to actually physically take the territory back. 
We can't defeat ISIS. We're not taking care of our great people, the veterans. 
But I look forward to signing that bill into law as president and auditing the Fed and providing needed accountability at the Federal Reserve. 
What has happened is, crime has gone down 20 percent in those years. 
The very basic fact is that Vladimir Putin is not going to be an ally of the United States. 
And multiple reputable journals, including The Wall Street Journal, said ours is the best. 
They would repeal the Affordable Care Act, not improve it. 
Someone on this stage will get to choose the balance of the Supreme Court, and it will begin by filling this vacancy that's there now. 
But let me tell you what is interesting about the administration. 
So, when someone comes along and says, free college, free phones, free this and that, and the other, they say, "wow, that's nice," having no idea that they're destabilizing our position. 
Let's begin, Anderson, by understanding that Bernie Sanders has a D-minus voting rating (ph) from the NRA. 
And the kinds of things that you come up with are sometimes very, very difficult and very unique. 
My proven record suggests that my detailed plans will fortify our national and economic security. 
But if we elect the right person if you elect me we will turn this country around, we will reclaim the American dream and this nation will be stronger and greater than it has ever been.
I will do everything in my power to beat Hillary Clinton, I promise you. 
ISIS is a group that burns people alive in cages; that sells off little girls as brides. 
is to secure our border, and we need to do it with more than just a wall. 
No it isn't but it is an important subject to talk about for sure. 
But the police in this country are absolutely amazing people. 
People should be able to get the treatment that they need when they need it, not two months from now, which is why I believe in universal...healthcare with mental health...a part of that. 
Guest workers are coming in, they're working under terrible conditions, but if they stand up for their rights, they're thrown out of the country. 
Because I don't think we should be imposing new big programs that are going to raise middle class families' taxes. 
Well, there's a lot that I would like to do to build on the successes of President Obama, but also, as I'm laying out, to go beyond. 
I supported President Clinton's effort to deal with ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. 
We've got challenges in the South China Sea because of what China is doing in building up these military installations. 
My grandfather instilled in me the belief that I was blessed to live in the one society in all of human history where even I, the son of a bartender and a maid, could aspire to have anything, and be anything that I was willing to work hard to achieve. 
It is an agenda, in my view, that would do great harm to our country. 
Just about everyone they put on the court votes exactly as they want. 
They are sucking trillions of dollars out of our country they're rebuilding China with the money they take out of our country. 
Let's not forget what this is about, 90 people a day die from gun violence in our country. 
If he wants to change the federal law, get Congress to pass the law to change it, and get a president to sign it. 
We will end sanctuary cities by cutting off taxpayer dollars to any jurisdiction that defies federal immigration law. 
And all of that has to be done in concert with the Arab nations. 
It gives us a very good example of certain types of Washington ethics. 
Probably, I don't know you people write the stuff. 
That moment was what Reagan would call "a time for choosing.
We'd rebuild infrastructure that would also create jobs in this country, and we'd work with the states to do it the right way, to do it more efficiently and more effectively. 
We have more people in jail today than any other country on earth. 
It's not -- it's our responsibility to pick and choose who comes in. 
I would not bail them out, but instead of adjusting monetary policy according to whims and getting it wrong over and over again and causing booms and busts, what the Fed should be doing is, number one, keeping our money tied to a stable level of gold, and, number two, serving as a lender of last resort. 
And as president, I will secure the border, we will end this deluge of drugs that is flowing over our southern border and that is killing Americans across this country. 
Certainly would never have made that horrible, disgusting, absolutely incompetent deal with Iran where they get $150 billion. 
If he hadn't inherited $200 million, you know where Donald Trump would be right now? 
Vladimir Putin is exploiting that weakness, for purposes of edging the Americans out as the most important geopolitical power broker in the region. 
And when he decided to go back, he criticized the young lady, saying, what am I supposed to do, go back with a mop and clean up the flooding? 
It took him five days before his people told him what to say, and he ultimately said, "It was a mistake." The war in Iraq, we spent $2 trillion, thousands of lives, we don't even have it. 
I lost touch with them for six hours that day and prayed that they were alive. 
Megyn, we need a commander in chief that speaks the truth. 
Well, Secretary Clinton, you're not in the White House yet. 
They come from another country and they're immediately sent out. 
But this is what a rigged economy and a corrupt campaign finance system and a broken criminal justice is about. 
And I argued if it takes a long time, you're going to have rebel forces emerge like these radical Islamists to take advantage of the vacuum. 
But anti-American dictators like Assad, who help Hezbollah, who helped get those IEDs into Iraq, if they go, I will not shed a tear. 
If they don't go with us, we slap the sanctions on anyway. 
And Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton will say it's those evil rich people. 
But I agree, as I mentioned a moment ago, with King Abdullah. 
Secretary Clinton does know a lot about healthcare, and she understands, I believe, that a medicare for all, single payer program will substantially lower the cost of healthcare for middle class families. 
We cannot have another four years of essentially Barack Obama. 
Because what I worry about is what will happen with ISIS gaining more territory, having more reach, and, frankly, posing a threat to our friends and neighbors in the region and far beyond. 
We're spending $80 billion locking people up, disproportionately Latino and African American. 
We have to change our whole way, our health care system is a disaster. 
And I keep going back to this because part of the reason the Wall Street guys are trying so hard to stop methe hedge fund guys, the shadow banking guysis because I've got their number on all of that. 
I'm saying, absolutely, we don't have to continue to lose 505 billion dollars as a trade deficit for the privilege of dealing with China. 
Just last week, we see saw two Iraqi refugees vetted using the same process the president says will work, that were arrested for being alleged ISIS terrorists. 
And to contrast, even -- there are differences among us. 
ARRARAS: Senator Cruz, you and Senator Rubio are the two candidates of hispanic descent on this stage. 
Our Air Force is about to be the smallest it's been in 100 years. 
The most recurring question I get when I stand on the chair all across Iowa and talk with my neighbors is, how are you going to heal the divisions and the wounds in our country? 
The caliphate of ISIS has to be destroyed, which means we need to arm directly to Kurds, imbed our troops with the Iraqi military, re engage with the Sunni tribal leaders. 
I don't think we're going to ride around in people's neighborhoods and grab people out of their homes. 
I know a little bit about this, having spent many hours in the situation room, advising President Obama. 
They have got to quit trying to ship rockets into Gaza that can be used against Israel. 
You have to reform Social Security, and the simple way to do it is to make sure that the wealthiest don't receive the same benefits as people that are lower-income. 
I honored my commitments, and as president, I will honor every commitment that I make to the men and women of this country. 
Well, there is no question that some people go overboard when it comes to trying to make profits, and they don't take into consideration the American people. 
Well, but let me explain, the focus should be...on defeating our enemies. 
Well, I think our great task is to make certain that our young men and women in the military do not get sucked into never- ending, perpetual warfare within the quagmire of Syria and Iraq. 
They'll last for about a year, based on all of the wealth they've accumulated. 
That there are far too many in the Washington cartel that support amnesty. 
That's exactly what I'll do as president of the United States. 
Because part of this is the startup challenges that this system is facing. 
Well, obviously, I voted, when President Clinton said, "let's stop ethnic cleansing in Kosovo," I voted for that. 
It takes at least 20,000 more additional border agents. 
In Houston, Texas, there's an organization in place because someone acted on their heart, wanted to make sure that there's no homeless veterans in Houston. 
That's why I am supporting getting back to rules-based monetary system not with a bunch of philosopher-kings deciding, but tied... 
Among them are corporate welfare, like sugar subsidies. 
John has a bigger government now and more employees than he had when he walked in the door. 
I was a member of the Armed Services Committee for 18 years. 
I don't see a lot of weakness on this stage, quite frankly. 
No, no, I'm the only one on the stage that's hired people. 
It is hard to find someone in my generation that thinks Social Security will be there for us. 
In short, we're going to do, we're going to build a wall. 
With Jeb's attitude, we will never be great again, that I can tell you. 
And, we can embrace legal immigration while believing in the rule of law and I would note, try going illegally to another country. 
We have to make sure that everybody has a sense that they can rise. 
We need to lead a force, a Sunni led force inside of Syria. 
Our allies are not sure what to make of us, and our enemies are moving. 
And that is what's so critical for our neighborhoods, our families, our children, and our grandchildren. 
On the issue of life, to me, the issue of life is not a political issue. 
We should repeal the rules because the economic costs of this far exceed the social benefit. 
We build our military, we take care of our vets, we get rid of Obamacare, and we have a great life altogether. 
We should have a path to legal status for the 12 million people that are here illegally. 
Barack Obama got his massive tax increase, and there was no spending cuts. 
But I think I'll go back to building buildings if it doesn't work out. 
If we don't do it, we'll continue to see what's exactly what's happening, not just from the Chinese, by the way. 
So, for example...a regime we should change is Iran...because Iran has declared war on us. 
And, you can go to my website and actually see that. 
As he stood on the deck of that ferryboat with the wind and salt air blowing, he looked back at the oppression and torture he was escaping. 
And I want to call on everyone in America to double down and realize that you were made special to heal this country and lift it for everyone. 
First of all, we have the lowest number of state employees in 30 years. 
In fact, American consumers pay the highest prices in the world for drugs that we help to be developed through the National Institute of Health and that we then tested through the FDA. 
If he has said something that was false and that an audit is going to find was fraudulent, the voters need to know. 
And why I am a staunch supporter of President Obama's principal accomplishment namely the Affordable Care Act is because I know how hard it was to get that done. 
I believe that we need to cut these taxes down, we need to be on a roadmap to balancing the budget, and we need to send power, money, and influence, the welfare department, the education department, job training, infrastructure, Medicaid, all of that out of Washington back to the states so we can run these programs from where we live to the top, not a one size fits all mentality that they have in Washington. 
This guy's lied let me just tell you, this guy lied about Ben Carson when he took votes away from Ben Carson in Iowa, and he just continues. 
So, you know, when we think about how we make a choice, it's the person that lands that plane. 
And if that's truly a representation of what he believes we should be doing, then with all due respect to the former secretary of state, I disagree with him. 
Third, if you look at my record as governor of New Jersey, I have vetoed a 50-caliber rifle ban. 
And what we need to do is bring people together to work on the agreement where there is broad consensus and that's what I intend to do. 
You're going to make air conditioners in Mexico, you're going to put them across our border with no tax. 
And when you see a problem, you must act quickly to get on top of it. 
It should be military expert judgment carrying out the objectives set out by the commander in chief. 
The best way to do that is to put more armor in, put more money from the Europeans in so they're actually contributing more to their own defense. 
I believe the world is a stronger and a better place, when the United States is the strongest military power in the world. 
They undermined him, and now they have created a cesspool in Libya. 
We're talking about global jihadists who actually want to destroy us. 
We want to be smart where we go, where we spend, how we spend. 
I -- I said I made a mistake on Iraq, and I would love to see Senator Sanders join with some of my colleague in addition the Senate that I see in the audience. 
Thirdly, we need to move our embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem to send a serious signal that we're back in the game with Israel and sign an agreement that makes sure that the world knows that they will have technological superiority. 
Do you think it has anything to do with the Koch brothers and ExxonMobil pouring huge amounts of money into the political system? 
is to make sure...is to make sure that you use the system the way it's supposed to work. 
Now, we had a development in the email matter today when it came out that Secretary Powell and close aides to Former Secretary Rice used private e-mail accounts. 
When you had the World Trade Center go, people were put into planes that were friends, family, girlfriends, and they were put into planes and they were sent back, for the most part, to Saudi Arabia. 
We're not going to be able to rebuild it unless we put a no-fly zone there, make it safe for those folks so we don't have to be talking about Syrian refugees anymore. 
That's right, I mean, instead of arguing about definitions, let's talk about...
And then in the committee, you said, "I want to bring people out of the shadows.
Everybody should pay the same proportion of what they make. 
And we keep hearing from President Obama and Hillary Clinton and Washington Republicans that they're searching for these mythical moderate rebels. 
The better way of dealing with this the better way of dealing with this is recognizing that there are people in, you know, the Islamic terrorists inside, embedded in refugee populations. 
What the political revolution is about is bringing people together to finally say, enough is enough. 
This is a man who insults his way to the nomination...
In 2006 when I ran for the Senate, Senator Barack Obama was kind enough to campaign for me, 2008, I did my best to see that he was elected and in 2012, I worked as hard as I could to see that he was reelected. 
The United States was asked to support the Europeans and the Arab partners that we had and we did a lot of due diligence about whether we should or not, and eventually, yes, I recommended and the president decided that we would support the action to protect civilians on the ground and that led to the overthrow of Gadhafi. 
We're going to fight it as hard as we can, and we're going to fight whoever the Republicans nominate who will depend on the Koch Brothers, and others. 
You cannot allow radical jihadists to have an operating safe haven anywhere in the world. 
We can't be focusing on the political side of this, we need to realize that our military force is how we project our word in the world. 
And to expand on Mr. Carson's or Dr. Carson's question, let's face it, we have laws already. 
And we are in a situation right now in our country that we have never been in before. 
The simple fact is that the world has been torn asunder. 
I think the president is trying very hard to thread a tough needle here, and that is to support those people who are against Assad, against ISIS, without getting us on the ground there, and that's the direction I believe we should have (inaudible). 
Because somebody doesn't think the way I do, doesn't mean that I can't care about them or can't love them. 
And it really is was such an unbelievable moment because the courts have not been ruling in our favor. 
North Korea is a very, very strange country because it is so isolated, and I do feel that a nation with nuclear weapons, they have got to be dealt with. 
So, yes, if they do all of those things then we can explore the use of bankruptcy protection, but not as the first resort, which is what they're asking for, because it will not solve the problems on the island and you're going to continue to see hundreds of thousands of people leave that beautiful place, and coming to the mainland. 
Eighty percent of the people in our prisons have addictions or problems. 
Bring us to a 350 ship Navy again, and modernize the Ohio class of submarines, and bring our Air Force back to 2,600 aircraft that are ready to go. 
We have a lot of issues with corporate power that have to be addressed. 
When I was a young man, I strongly opposed the war in Vietnam. 
They worked hard to provide us the chance at a better life. 
Look at the attack they inspired in Philadelphia, that the White House still refuses to link to terror, where a guy basically shot a police officer three times. 
But now millions of Americans feel like they're being left behind. 
We're sitting up here talking about all these other things; 71 percent of federal spending today is on entitlements, and debt service. 
Enemies across this world will know the United States is not to be trifled with. 
Those are the things that we need to be able to be doing. 
Regarding national security, we need to restore the defense cuts of Barack Obama to rebuild our military, to destroy ISIS before it destroys us. 
And I believe we need to unify in so many ways to rebuild our country, to strengthen our country, to rebuild our defense, and for America to secure it's place it world; for us, for our children, and for the next generation. 
It is because our Air Force is incapable of doing the same things that it did a few years ago. 
But I have said that Mr. Trump's language is divisive. 
That means you stop the Obama administration's policy of releasing criminal illegal aliens. 
So there are changes that I believe would make a real difference if they could be achieved, but I do not currently support it as it is written. 
There aren't enough good-paying jobs, especially for young people. 
But at the end of the day, Nancy, here is the question -- in this great country of ours, with so much intelligence and so much capability, why do we remain the only major country on earth that does not guarantee health care to all people as a right? 
And those countries who are opposed to Islam, they are going to have to get deeply involved in a way that is not the case today. 
Well, he's wrong on a lot of things, but on this he's wrong because I'm the most pro-life governor on this stage. 
Number two, we have a trade deficit with Mexico of $58 billion a year. 
We rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, our roads our bridges, our rail systems, we create 13 million jobs with a trillion-dollar investment. 
And then we'll see what the American people are willing to support when it comes to people that are not criminals, who have been in the this country for a long time and who otherwise would like to stay. 
At the center of my campaign is how we're going to raise wages. 
We're losing so much with Mexico and China with China, we're losing $500 billion a year. 
And so everybody needs to discount some of the things you're going to hear in these ads, and discount the the back-and-forth here, because every person here is better than Hillary Clinton. 
In terms of my faith, look, all I say is that when I study scripture, I know that people who live in the shadows need to have a chance. 
And people and by the way, this is not just with respect to Mexico. 
Of course, we're going to be a nation of immigrants. 
I've spent the last 13 years of my life focused on one thing: serving the people who have given me the opportunity to serve them. 
And that's why 2016 is a turning point in our history. 
But I will tell you this, when I stand across from King Hussein of Jordan and I say to him, "You have a friend again sir, who will stand with you to fight this fight," he'll change his mind. 
And I'm going to stay positive about what I want to do from the... 
As Ias I certainly recall, the question was to meet with without conditions. 
And of course, the next place that ISIS is going to attack to is Libya. 
These are people that want to kill us, folks, and you're you're objecting to us infiltrating their conversations? 
This campaign is about a political revolution to not only elect the president, but to transform this country. 
You look at Libya right now, ISIS, as we speak, is taking over their oil. 
Every one of them reflects a carve-out or a subsidy, and it's all about empowering the Washington cartel. 
Those are some of the principles that I believe in, and I think we should look to countries like Denmark, like Sweden and Norway, and learn from what they have accomplished for their working people. 
There's look, there's I would try to convince him otherwise, but this last back and forth between two senators back bench senators, you know, explains why we have the mess in Washington, D.C. We need a president that will fix our immigration laws and stick with it, not bend with the wind. 
Right now you have a loophole such that these guys are putting their profits, multi-billion dollar profitable corporations putting billions of dollars into the Cayman Islands, Bermuda, and other tax havens. 
That's because we've put conservative policies in place. 
You see, in order to get this economy moving again, you have to grow the economy, and you have to restrain the spending. 
You know, Senator Sanders has said he wants to run a positive campaign. 
That's what I would do as commander-in-chief in this circumstance. 
But you've just asked a very fundamental question about the role of faith in our country. 
It's all about getting people to listen to one another's problems. 
We can create a situation where wages begin to rise. 
That debate reflected a debate between the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks. 
I was the first one to file a financial disclosure form almost 100 pages. 
I will Tear down the EPA's blend wall which will enable ethanol to expand its market share by up to 60%, all without mandates. 
And the sad reality is big government, massive taxes, massive regulation, doesn't work. 
And worse worse yet, to be honest with you, Hillary Clinton would be a national security disaster. 
But I recall when Secretary Clinton ran against then-Senator Obama, she was critical of him for suggesting that maybe you want to talk to Iran, that you want to talk to our enemies. 
First of all, the when you say I'm the only candidate, if you listen to the Democrats, they want to do many things to Social Security, and I want to do them on its own merit. 
It's just going to be solved by declaring into the air, "Let there be jobs.
We have wait a second, we have $19 trillion in debt. 
So tonight, I ask you for your vote and I ask you to join us at my website, marcorubio.com.
Well, first off, I too believe in curriculum reform. 
At the end of the day, the legal issue is quite straightforward, but I would note that the birther theories that Donald has been relying on some of the more extreme ones insist that you must not only be born on U.S. soil, but have two parents born on U.S. soil. 
We need to coordinate all of our efforts with the private sector. 
And if we try to put everybody in the same call everybody the same thing, we can't do it. 
We're looking at a president who's engaged in this double-speak where he doesn't call radical Islamic terrorism by its name. 
But we have to look at this on a much more global scale. 
Let's talk aboutOK, let's talk...let us talk about issues. 
Over the last few weeks, I've listened to Jeb as he walked around the country and said that you're modeling your campaign after John McCain, that you're going to launch a furious comeback the way he did, by fighting hard in New Hampshire and places like that, carrying your own bag at the airport. 
So you know the New York Times and I don't have exactly have the warmest of relationships. 
If I am elected president, we will hunt down and kill the terrorists. 
And my plan would have the potential of actually sending the executives to jail. 
This president, this president is more interested in funding less interested in funding the military, than he is in funding planned he's more interested in funding Planned Parenthood than he is in funding the military. 
Well, that's a great question, and let me begin by answering it. 
The fact is it does matter when you have to make decisions and be held accountable for them. 
Our country deserves no less, because all of the other issues we want to deal with depend upon us being secure and strong. 
They know, and the reason I won in Nevada, not only won the big one, but I also won subs, like, as an example, I won with women. 
But we're running for the presidency of the United States here. 
But the first task is to bring countries together to destroy ISIS. First of all, we recognize that we have a rigged economy, as you've indicated. 
For the first time in 35 years, we have more businesses dying than starting, and around the world, every day brings news of a new humiliation for America many the direct response direct consequence of decisions made when Hillary Clinton was the secretary of the of state. 
Everybody else was in the witness protection program when I went after him on behalf of what the Republican cause should be: conservative principles, believing in limited government, believing in accountability. 
And no matter what your faith is, that's what I want you to be able to do. 
Look, we are fighting for every vote that we can get from women, from men, straight, gay, African-Americans, Latinos, Asian-Americans. 
Well, Andrea, I am absolutely committed to universal health care. 
Donald, might be able to Palestinians and Arabs, but it's not a real estate deal...
And sadly, in America today, in our economy, a whole lot of those poor people are African-American. 
Well, let me first describe Iran because they're not just a normal nation state. 
The way that he is trying to set European countries against one another, seizing territory, holding it in Crimea. 
The reason all of us are here is we believe we should be fighting for the working men and women of this country, and not Washington, D.C. 
And I am an original co-sponsor of Rand Paul's audit the Fed legislation. 
Secondly, an attack on NATO, trumped up on any excuse of Russian-speaking people, either in the NATO countries or in Finland or Sweden, is going to be an attack on us. 
You know, there was a time for choosing as Reagan put it. 
When he ran for election in the state of Florida, he told the people of Florida, "if you elect me, I will lead the fight against amnesty.
I'm still here, and I'm not going any place either. 
But in return for that, there should be a consensus orientation on that nomination, and there's no doubt in my mind that Barack Obama will not have a consensus pick when he submits that person to the Senate. 
All of those things will lead to a situation where the next generation will not have a chance that we've had now. 
But you know, the fact of the matter is, she is the epitome of the progressive -- the secular progressive movement. 
We have child safety protection work on guns in that legislation. 
My proposal is tougher, more effective, and more comprehensive because I go after all of Wall Street not just the big banks. 
Now, let me ask you a question everybody, and, this is for the guy, you know, who owns a landscaping business out there. 
I was very pleased to be part of what the president put into action when he took office. 
And Jane spends her time now defending and fighting for military families. 
You know, we obviously, you're not going to accomplish all of your goals without some collateral damage. 
We are trying to bring America together around an agenda that works for working families and the middle class. 
The problem with executive authority for the president, it's really bad news for this reason. 
But at the end of the day, Wall Street today has enormous economic and political power. 
And he gets his foreign policy experience from the shows. 
Now, you can take it any way you want, and it took it took Jeb Bush, if you remember at the beginning of his announcement, when he announced for president, it took him five days. 
They ain't going to like me and Wall Street is going to like me even less. 
Republicans win when people are demoralized and you have a small voter turnout, which by the way is why they love voter suppression. 
And so, look, the way that -- a stronger middle class is actually the source of economic growth. 
And of course the federal government says, you're not going to be poisoning little kids and impacting their entire lives. 
We can end sanctuary cities by cutting off funding to them. 
Look, it takes three things basically to grow jobs. 
Now, in my view, the only way we can take on the right wing republicans who are, by the way, I hope will not continue to control the Senate and the House when one of us elected President 
So they clearly think I'm going to do what I say I will do and you can look at what I did in the Senate. 
She took the Obama IRS to court, and she won, and they struck down the rule for picking the big guys over the little guys. 
We need people who think out of the box and can solve problems; can utilize the resources around them; very smart people, to focus on the problem and solve the problem. 
The next thing I intend to do is instruct the Department of Justice to open an investigation into these videos and to prosecute Planned Parenthood for any criminal violations. 
If I am elected president we will secure the border...and we will end the illegal immigration. 
This is a wall that's a heck of a lot higher than the ceiling you're looking at. 
They didn't pass a tax increase, because I vetoed it and they never closed the government because they knew I would fight for what I believed in. 
That is the way in which we are going to damp down the rising costs of healthcare. 
ARRARAS: Dr. Carson, concerning this recommendation of the report, are you, as a candidate, getting it? 
He was fighting to grant amnesty and not to secure the border, I was fighting to secure the border. 
I think maybe my greatest weakness is that I trust people too much. 
It is the story of a nation that for over two centuries each generation has left the next better off than themselves. 
So, instead of having one insurance company taking care of New York, or Texas, you'll have many. 
And it's not too much to ask of our generation after everything our parents and our grandparents did for us. 
And then he cut and run because it wasn't popular amongst conservatives, I guess. 
Civil wars are not in our direct interest, and if you and look, I served on a defense committee for 18 years and was called into the Pentagon after 9/11 by Secretary Rumsfeld to deal with some of the most serious problems that we faced. 
Look, what a president has to do is take a position. 
If I'm elected president, we will repeal every word of Obamacare. 
I spent a lot of time in the situation room as secretary of state and there were many very difficult choices presented to us. 
And when I left Washington in 2000, we had a $5 trillion surplus, and the economy was booming. 
I disagree with him on a number of issues including the trade agreement. 
Well, the average small manufacturer, whatever they're manufacturing, drugs or anything, if they have less than 50 employees, the average cost in terms of regulations is $34,000 per employee. 
And we now have over 500,000 donations, and the money is coming in. 
Those are the kinds of things that we ought to be doing. 
We need better intelligence cooperation, we need to be sure that we are getting the best intelligence that we can from friends and allies around the world. 
They're friends of mine, there's some right in the audience. 
But this cannot be an American fight, although American leadership is essential. 
No, not a comic book, and it's not a very nicely asked question the way you say that. 
I -- I believe that we should make community college free. 
And that's what is happening whether you like it or not. 
He said, "there's a chill wind blowing through law enforcement in this country.
Can I tell that we should open an embassy in Tehran tomorrow? 
Because at the time, Apple was portraying that the court order was to create a back door to an encryption device. 
People came back from Iraq and Afghanistan without legs, without arms. 
And even for the average person, every single regulation costs money. 
And this is why you need to send someone from outside of Washington to Washington. 
This will allow them to get a reward for doing a great job. 
If you looking at what happened with Boeing and if you look at what happened with so many companies that deal so we don't have an equal playing field. 
But it will not be unconstitutional executive orders like the ones Barack Obama has forced on us. 
We pay for it, in my view, by a tax on Wall Street speculation. 
You read about all the companies now that are doing business about to do business in Iran, and if we don't get this settled now, with other countries in the world, about sanctions, then Iran could violate that agreement, and we're the only ones putting the sanctions on. 
Well you know, Rachel, I think I may not have done the job I should in explaining my record. You know, I didwhen I left the secretary of State's office, like so many former officials, military leaders, journalists, others, I did go on the speaking circuit. 
Egypt, they have been our ally and a moderating force in the Middle East throughout their history. 
What kind of signal does that send to the rest of the world that the United States is a serious player in creating peace and security? 
And so that's Donald's pattern over and over again. 
My four children have been able to receive a good Christian education, and I've been able to save for them to go to college so they never have to have the loans that I did. 
Well, but all well, on a state level, a state as big as many countries in the world. 
We need, basically, to pledge that we're going to invest in this country, in jobs and education, not more jails and incarceration. 
Because, first of all, you may rename the IRS but you are not going to abolishes the IRS, because there has to be some agency that's going to collect your vat tax. 
Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton are the reckless people. 
We have seen women no longer paying more for our insurance than men. 
and then I went on a T.V. show and I said, "it was outrageous that the governor hadn't acted and within two hours he had.
But now, that light is dimming a little, after seven years of Barack Obama. 
And I will always allow my faith to influence everything I do. 
But I would like to see us move forward, and hopefully some day that will happen. 
And I think the question you would ask is, how did you inspire again the American people to believe in the future? 
No, I don't think so, but we need to be strong against China. 
I built a phenomenal business with incredible, iconic assets, one of the really truly great real-estate businesses. 
So I see as president having a constant dialogue with Americans here's what we're trying to get done, here's why I need your help, here's why you may think comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship isn't something you care about, but I'm telling you it will help fix the labor market, it will bring people out of the shadows it will actually raise wages. 
I think that we have the opportunity through the states that are pursuing recreational marijuana to find out a lot more than we know today. 
President Obama's preparing to send $100 billion or more to the Ayatollah Khamenei. 
They recognize that people's actions don't always match their words. 
So, we've got this arc of instability from North Africa to South Asia, and we have to pay close attention to it. 
You know, I've been called a lot of names by a lot of different people, and now I got to get called by names by the Secret Service? 
We now have a national security consideration, public health issues, we have an epidemic of heroine overdoses in all places in this country because of the ease of bringing heroine in. 
Declare that within five to 10 years we will become petroleum independent. 
We were attacked in downtown Manhattan where Wall Street is. 
We're spending $80 billion a year locking up fellow Americans. 
I don't think first of all, I don't think it's practical and I don't think it reflects America. 
And that this world, with American leadership, can and must come together to destroy them. 
If it had gone right, believe me, she would have been running around to be able to take credit for it. 
Mine gives every American a simple, flat tax of 10 percent. 
We've done it for 8 years, and almost 8 years now. 
Yes, there are people out there who want to privatize it. 
And and and the last piece of this, Maria, is this. 
Well, I was chairman for two years, and when I was chairman we did take action. 
This is a president this is a president who is trying to change this country. 
And he knows that I'm not for Obamacare, never have been. 
If I could just answer that, we have also got to take a look at the waste and inefficiencies in the Department of Defense, which is the one major agency of government that has not been able to be audited. 
And we know of the tragic, terrible event that lead to the death of Dontre Hamilton right here in Milwaukee, a young man unarmed, who should still be with us. 
Dana, I was mentioned in his response, so if I may about the insurance companies...
Twenty-four months ago, 36 months ago, you did not have a group of radical crazies named ISIS who were burning people in cages and recruiting people to enter our country legally. 
That's why this election is truly a referendum on our identity as a nation, as a people. 
And Turkey, by the way, did a very decent thing, providing what was reasonable housing and conditions for those people. 
You know, there are three avenues of presidential authority to change the direction of this country. 
Law enforcement is about gathering evidence to take someone to trial, and convict them. 
Well, there is a divide, but I have to say that the police are absolutely mistreated and misunderstood, and if there is an incident, whether it's an incident done purposely which is a horror, and you should really take very strong action or if it is a mistake, it's on your news casts all night, all week, all month, and it never ends. 
So if you're a single mom, if you're making $40,000 a year, what that means is an extra about $5,000 in your pocket to provide for your kids, to make ends meet. 
One out of five Americans can't even afford the prescriptions their doctors are writing. 
But I believe deeply, that marriage should be between one man and one woman. 
And I think the United States, ultimately, is going to play play a significant role in this. 
And I believe I can, because I have a proven record, a record of accomplishment, a record of cutting taxes, of shrinking the government, of reforming education, of challenging the status quo, eliminating career civil service protections, shrinking the government workforce by 11 percent, but leading the nation in job growth. 
I would certainly tackle the cost issues, because I think that once the foundation was laid with a system to try to get as many people as possible into it, to end insurance discrimination against people with preexisting conditions or women, for example, that, yes, we were going to have to figure out how to get more competition in the insurance market, how to get the costs of -- particularly, prescription drugs, but other out-of-pocket expenses down. 
As you know, in the first Persian Gulf War, it was 1,100 air attacks a day. 
We have the highest rate of childhood poverty among almost any major country on Earth. 
But also the biggest people (ph) now I've used that to my advantage as a business man, for my family, for myself. 
We should use overwhelming force, kill the enemy and then get the heck out. 
You wouldn't have schools, you wouldn't have bridges. 
And as far as the Internet is concerned, we're not talking about closing the Internet. 
Make our police officers proud of what they do but more important than that, let them know how proud we are of them.
I'll tell you what I'll tell you what I'd be willing to fight for. 
And when they let me down, if they let me down, I never forgive. 
Chris, the most important determination any voter is going to make in this election is who's best prepared to be Commander in Chief. 
Not only would I be prepared to do it, I would do it. 
I think the dysfunction in Washington is really dangerous, that's what I think. 
I mean the fact is, is that they need to put the pressure on and frankly we need to intercepts ships coming out of North Korea so they don't proliferate all these dangerous materials. 
So, you know, we'll take our progress wherever we can find it. 
It'll produce enormous economic growth, and it eliminates every mandate, every subsidy, so there's no subsidies for oil and gas, no subsidies for anyone. 
" Our decision is, then, do we give them what we need. 
And I said, "well, if he wanted to play a song, maybe he could play, 'New York, New York'?" 
Let me, you know, again, respectfully disagree with Secretary Clinton here. 
The reason why free enterprise is the greatest economic model in the history of the world is because it's the only economic model where you can make poor people richer without making rich people poor. 
ISIS came in, and now occupies significant territory in Libya, and is now prepared, unless we stop them, to have a terrorist foothold. 
I know that you now have your data back, and that there has been an agreement for an independent inquiry into what did happen. 
But if people think that we are going to ship 11 million people who are law-abiding, who are in this country, and somehow pick them up at their house and ship them out of Mexico to Mexico, think about the families. 
And it makes every family their own insurance carrier with no middle man. 
And a president better be up-to-date on those issues on his first day in office, on her first day in office. 
I would seek out, as I have, the best advice that exists. 
This election is about making a different choice, about applying our principles of limited government and free enterprise to the unique issues of our time. 
You can you can deal with the threat of terror and also recognize that this country should be aspirational across the board. 
Folks, we have a problem here with the leadership in Washington, but I'll tell you another problem. 
And finally, on health care, why don't we start treating keep giving...
And that's why we have to use Carl and we have to use our great businesspeople and not political hacks to negotiate with these guys. 
He said he likes the individual mandate portion of it, which I don't believe that should be part of it. 
We don't win with trade, we don't win with the military. 
If we want free tuition at public colleges and universities, millions of young people are going to have to demand it, and give the Republicans an offer they can't refuse. 
Now, as far as monitoring is concerned, what my point is, we need to make sure that any place I don't care whether it's a mosque, a school, a supermarket, a theater, you know it doesn't matter. 
The problem is we had an attack in San Bernardino. 
In my view, it doesn't go anywhere near far enough. 
Now, fortunately, we were able to stabilize the situation, and it was the current administration that turned tail and ran and destabilized the situation. 
And frankly, what I say, and oftentimes it's fun, it's kidding. 
Well, let me let me first of all talk a little bit about my experience. 
I think we have to say that is true for everybody going to college. 
Now explain to me how that makes any sense at all. 
That's in my opinion, that is the single biggest problem that our country faces right now. 
You know, when I left law school, my first job was with the Children's Defense Fund, and for all the years since, I have been focused on how we're going to un-stack the deck, and how we're gonna make it possible for more people to have the experience I had. 
It's 11 pages of existing federal law and in particular the question of what to do with people who are here now? 
And, when I campaigned, and I campaigned the same here in Houston or Dallas as I did in the Rio Grande Valley, defending conservative principles, defending judeo- Christian principals, telling my father's story. 
I do not want socialized medicine, just so you understand. 
They do not just need broadsides against them because of the religious faith they practice. 
We have to go after what is called the shadow banking industry. 
And we are going to do a political revolution, which brings working people, young people, senior citizens, minorities together. 
The endorsements that I'm proud of are conservative leaders like Dr. James Dobson, and over 700,000 contributions nationwide, people going to our Web site, tedcruz.org. 
He put so much debt on Florida, and he increased spending so much that as soon as he got out of office, Florida crashed. 
I know people that, frankly, it has no impact on their life whatsoever. 
Of course there will be a limit, but when today you have massive levels of income and wealth inequality, when the middle class is disappearing, you have the highest rate of child poverty of almost any major country on Earth. 
I took the state of Ohio from an $8 billion hole and a 350,000 job loss to a $2 billion surplus and a gain of 350,000 jobs. 
He said the attack he would conduct would be a pinprick. 
And, I'm proud of the fact that I have 12 Medal of Honor recipients, over 30 admirals and generals that believe that I would be a steady hand as Commander in Chief. 
Well, why do they make millions of dollars of campaign contributions? 
We are walking through this region, Andrea, without the human intelligence that we need. 
You will have welcomed my dad to preach at your churches. 
Well, the first difference is I don't take money from big banks. 
The world's financial system on the verge of collapse. 
In July of 2004, I came out strongly against the war with Iraq, because it was going to destabilize the Middle East. 
I mean, if look, I was involved in just being a pioneer in a new church. 
This is coming from a guy who gets his foreign policy from the shows. 
And so, yes, I have a child tax credit increase, and I'm proud of it. 
Hey, I'm in the United States Senate, and anyone who doesn't think that there is an enormous amount of waste and inefficiency and bureaucracy throughout government would be very, very mistaken. 
And I'm so grateful for the diligence, for the seriousness with which the men and women of Iowa approach this process. 
Here is the case, they both agree, they can't make a deal. 
Well, there's no question that ISIS is a very serious problem, and I don't believe that this administration recognizes how serious it is. 
I think now what I've called for is counsel for every child so that no child has to face any kind of process without someone who speaks and advocates for that child so that the right decision hopefully can be made. 
That is the end of DACA. I am sympathetic to this cause, but once again, it cannot supersede the Constitution of the United States which this president habitually and routinely every single day ignores and violates. 
Typically, politicians do things that are politically expedient. 
Number one, it ended the federal government's bulk collection of phone metadata of millions of law-abiding citizens. 
"I want to collect more records from terrorists, but less records from other people." How are you supposed to know, Megyn? 
And it's something that can be done, and I get questioned about that. 
Let em also tell you that after the 9/11 attacks, Secretary Rumsfeld invited me to the Pentagon with a meeting of the former secretaries of Defense. 
I look forward to talking tonight about how we can fix a broken Washington D.C., and create an environment where people can rise up again in this great country. 
People who know me know that I'm an honest person. 
It's a very interesting development here within the 24 hours. 
I think that's a high priority all across this country, but expanding Obamacare is what we're talking about, and Obamacare's expansion, even though the federal government is paying for the great majority of it, is creating further debt on the backs of our children and grandchildren. 
Yeah, I would encourage people to go on my website, marcorubio.com, and we'll put all the facts up there so people can see it for themselves. 
I would like to take a hard look at every part of the federal government and really do the kind of analysis that would rebuild some confidence in people that we're taking a hard look about what we have, you know, and what we don't need anymore. 
I hate to say Iran, but with Russia, because we and the Iran deal is one of the worst deals I have ever seen negotiated in my entire life. 
I sure as hell don't want to let people that want to kill us and kill our nation use our Internet. 
Look, the FBI has the tools necessary un-American activities in our country. 
I'm asking people to support me because I think I'm the most qualified, experienced, and ready person to be the president and the commander-in-chief. 
I know it isn't something you just hope people will do and I've worked on that...
You know, it's interesting, Donald just said that he never came out in favor of toppling Gadhafi in Libya. 
And I said we need to build a wall, and it has to be built quickly. 
But the Democrats are going to bring a lawsuit, and you have to have certainty. 
Let's not have the most expensive business tax rate in the world. 
And those things are things that I'm very good at and maybe that's why I'm center stage. 
If you've got 10 people coming to your house and you know one of them is a terrorist, you're probably going to keep them all out. 
They're fine with big government when it comes to that. 
If we're going to have a coalition, we're going to have to have a coalition not just of people in the western part of the world, our European allies, but we need the Saudis, we need the Egyptians, we need the Jordanians, we need the Gulf states. 
We now have much more information about what must be done to fix our criminal justice system. 
The fact of the matter is I've cut taxes more than anybody in the country this year. 
He's been criticizing he's been criticizing my sister for signing a certain bill. 
They're not my ideas, and I don't necessarily agree with all of them. 
Any connection to the fact that not one Republican candidate for president thinks and agrees with the scientific community that climate change is real and that we have got to transform our energy system? 
And that is what this election must be about, because if the next four years are anything like the last eight years, our children will be the first Americans ever left worse off by their parents. 
You know, we have to stop this because, you know, if we manage to damage ourselves, and we lose the next election, and a progressive gets in there and they get two or three Supreme Court picks, this nation is over as we know it. 
My own wife was two blocks from the Trade Center that day, at her office, having gone through it that morning. 
And I think in order to make them look like losers, we have to destroy their caliphate. 
You have companies like Goldman Sachs, who just recently paid a settlement fine with the federal government for $5 billion for defrauding investors. 
And I don't even mind that so much, if they do it about with everybody, like people on the other side. 
Let's talk about why, in the 1990s, Wall Street got deregulated. 
I don't see how anything gets a whole lot fairer than that. 
Detailed plans count, and I believe that the plan I've laid out to destroy ISIS before the tragedies of San Bernardino and Paris are the right ones. 
When you balance the budget and you cut taxes, people get work. 
To my mind, if we do not get a handle on money in politics and the degree to which big money controls the political process in this country, nobody is going to bring about the changes that is needed in this country for the middle class and working families. 
I've also called for the end of family detention, for the end of privately-run detention centers, along with private prisons, which I think are really against the common good and the rule of law. 
Well, Megyn, let me say at the outset to the men and women of Iowa, thank you for the incredible hospitality over this past year. 
If you go into Hasakah province in northeast Syria, that's an area that's as big as Lebanon. 
" If we had that kind of system in place, we wouldn't have the 11 million people we have now. 
I go further in the plan that I've proposed, which has been called the toughest, most effective, comprehensive plan for reining in the other risks that the financial system could face. 
As someone who has done it, I will make sure it gets done again. 
And I'll tell you the endorsements that I am proud of are the over 200,000 volunteers across this country who have signed up to volunteer for our campaign. 
China is a problem, both economically in what they're doing in the South China Sea, I mean, they are becoming a very, very major force. 
Look, I did 106 town halls, and I've been doing them left and right here in South Carolina. 
I want to just tell you that the problem is not right now between the administration and Apple. 
What I've been watching here, this back and forth, and these attacks, some of them are personal. 
A couple points, number one, I do think it's amazing that on this stage tonight there are two descendants of Cuban origin, and an African American. 
It took Candy Crush one year to reach some 100 million users. 
And it would send a signal to the rest of the world that the United States values that are so important for our long-term success no longer matter in this country. 
First of all, Marco said earlier on that President Obama knows exactly what he's doing, like we have this president that really knows. 
Listen, we have always welcomed legal immigrants, but I think it is a mistake to forgive those who break the law to allow them to become U.S. citizens, and that's why I've led the fight against granting citizenship to those here illegally, and that's why I will do the same thing as president. 
But, I've had many people come and say the same thing to me. 
A politician other than the people in the states I don't want to a politician cannot get them to pay. 
...Spend a little more money on the commercials.... 
I think it's important, because it's about judgment. 
The bottom line is this is a campaign and people are watching it. 
As far as the wall is concerned, we're going to build a wall. 
Well, I agree that we have to have the toughest screening and vetting...
The reason why it's important to understand that is because these are not groups that are just going to go away on their own. 
If I'm president, many of the things that we discussed tonight will not be forgotten. 
I think, Secretary Clinton, $1.61 a week is a pretty good investment. 
Justice Samuel Alito, a very conservative member of the Supreme Court, with my sister, signed that bill. 
And it's our job to rein in the excesses of capitalism so that it doesn't run amok and doesn't cause the kind of inequities we're seeing in our economic system. 
So, you know This is the standard operating procedure, to disparage me. 
The problem is that Barack Obama has made law enforcement the enemy, Hillary Clinton has made law enforcement the enemy. 
The Republicans want to give them more power, and repeal Dodd-Frank. 
Ronald Reagan reignited the American economy, rebuilt the Military, bankrupted the Soviet Union and defeated Soviet Communism. 
Yes, in my view, the government of a democratic society has a moral responsibility to play a vital role in making sure all of our people have a decent standard of living. 
You see, we have to remind people we're Americans before we're Republicans and Democrats, and when we wait, and when we delay what we end up doing, Mary Katharine, is we make the United States weaker. 
You know, not only do I have hundreds of thousands of donors, most of them small. 
Andyou know, what I hope the Supreme Court will do is make it absolutely clear that any state that continues capital punishment either must meet the highest standards of evidentiary proof of effective assistance of counsel or they cannot continue it because that, to me, is the real dividing line. 
Nobody gets audited I have friends that are very wealthy people. 
" We're going to be a country that says "that marriage is between one man and one woman.
You know, we talk about our military being degraded over time, and yet we've had folks on this stage who've been a part of Congress who have participated in sequester; who participated in the degrading of this military over time. 
The radical Islamic jihadists, what they want to do is impose their faith upon each and every one of us every one of us. 
So I know it's not going to happen overnight and everything that can be done should be done. 
Workforce participation rates lower than they were in 1977. 
I don't get personal speaking fees from Goldman Sachs. 
We've got all these government regulators, and all they're doing is running around looking for people to fine. 
I want to have a top-to-bottom review about what works and what doesn't work, and be absolutely clear we're getting rid of what doesn't work. 
I want the Buffett Rule to be in effect, where millionaires have to pay 30 percent tax rates instead of 10 percent to nothing in some cases. 
This debate needs to be about the men and women across this country that are struggling on a daily basis to provide for their families the better future that we've always said this country is all about. 
So, in terms of refugees, I believe that the United States has the moral responsibility with Europe, with Gulf countries like Saudi Arabia to make sure that when people leave countries like Afghanistan and Syria with nothing more than the clothing on their back that, of course, we reach out. 
You said on September 30th that ISIS was not a factor. 
There are many crises that come a water crisis in Toledo. 
It can not be someone that agrees with his agenda. 
It can be done, and we will be great...when we join together. 
The second thing I said is we need to add reforms, not just increase the numbers, but add reforms. 
It seems to me that instead of building more jails and providing more incarceration, maybe just maybe we should be putting money into education and jobs for our kids. 
I know how much money influences the political decision-making. 
And remember, the Russians have not gone after ISIS or any of the other terrorist groups. 
Now, this agreement, we don't know what's going to happen in 18 months. 
There is a difference between Senator Rubio and me on this question. 
Bring the money the $2 trillion back to the United States. 
We cannot let things get farther down the road, like we did with North Korea. 
He has blessed the Republican Party with some very good candidates. 
I think what you did see is that, in this debate, we tried to deal with some of the very tough issues facing our country. 
Listen, everyone out there knows this in New Hampshire. 
I want those kids to know that if they study hard, they do their homework, regardless of the income of their families, they will in fact be able to get a college education because we are going to make public colleges and universities tuition-free. 
And I know that securing our borders is not anti-immigrant and we will do it. 
Never have and never will support any effort to grant blanket legalization amnesty to folks who have entered, or stayed in this country illegally. 
They are the ones who should respond to any questions. 
But the portability part of it is incredibly important. 
I think the government is involved in our e-mails; is involved in our websites. 
And I've done it in the state of Ohio as the chief executive. 
Well, you know, there's a false narrative that only the political class has the wisdom and the ability to be commander-in- chief. 
But on this issue, when you have one of the large Latino organizations in America saying vote no, and you have the AFL-CIO saying vote no, and you have leading progressive Democrats, in fact, voting no, I don't apologize for that vote. 
Those organizations should get funding, just as I increased funding when I was governor of the state. 
Let me agree with much of what the secretary and the governor have said. 
We need to have everybody in our country focused on watching what happens and reporting it if it's suspicious, reporting what you hear. 
And absolutely, Apple doesn't have a right to defy a valid court order in a terrorism investigation. 
ISIS is using the Internet better than we are using the Internet, and it was our idea. 
I haven't gotten the intelligence briefing tonight on what North Korea's doing because I'm here in new Hampshire. 
If all the people who say, "I love Ben Carson and his policies, but he can't win," vote for me, not only can we win, but we can turn this thing around. 
And even having this conversation sends a powerful signal they're doing high-fives in the Clinton campaign right now when they hear this. 
And my analysis is that you are going to get more taxes out of middle class families. 
We should make women third-class citizens, that we should allow children to be sexually assaulted, that they are a danger to modern society. 
We're bringing corporate taxes down, bringing money back in, corporate inversions. 
And these if this thing continues, we are going to be the first Americans to leave our children worse off than ourselves. 
And sometimes you have to look at both of those to come up with the right solution. 
It didn't happen, and as a result, people have lost trust in the federal government. 
And you know that about a third of the people who are now getting that health care are people who are suffering very serious illnesses, particularly cancer. 
And Donald, if you want to be liked in Washington, that's not a good attribute for a president. 
And I just couldn't agree disagree more with those kinds of comments. 
Well, David, I think this is one of the most important challenges facing not just our next president but our country. 
And, in a big, tolerant country, we should respect the rule of law, allow people in in in this country I'm a I was opposed to the decision, but we you can't just say, "well, they gays can't get married now." 
That beautiful young woman who's an entrepreneur who served in the military, first of all, is deserving of our respect for service in the military and the fact that she's an entrepreneur. 
I am the only candidate on this stage who has never supported amnesty and, in fact, who helped lead the fight to stop a massive amnesty plan. 
They're on the coast, which mostly, it's desert, but it's a problem. 
And I will note, you know, in the whole course of this discussion about our foreign policy threats, it actually illustrates the need for clarity of focus. 
And so I believe the president should not move forward, and I think that we ought to let the next president of the United States decide who is going to run that Supreme Court with a vote by the people of the United States of America. 
And if you think that a no-fly zone is a reckless policy, you're welcome to your opinion. 
And this is beanbag compared to what the Clinton hit machine is going to do to the Republican nominee. 
We should put the NSA in charge of the civilian side of this as well. 
Are you concerned like I am that the debt and deficits of Washington, D.C. are endangering America's future? 
And believe me, they had a rough weekend that weekend, between Bill and Hillary. 
Hillary Clinton has said that Barack Obama's policies get an A. Really? 
And it should happen at the state and local level. 
The Keystone Pipeline, without eminent domain, it wouldn't go 10 feet, OK? 
And the people who are being impacted, you know, a question that was asked earlier, Becky asked, was about working women. 
I've been passionate my whole life about the Constitution. 
We have to start treating people the same, and finding out what people really think and what they're made of. 
I did help to renegotiate the trade agreement that we inherited from President Bush with Korea. 
I believe in public funding of elections, absolutely. 
We the people of the United States in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare and secure the benefits of liberty to ourselves and our prosperity, do ordain and establish this constitution of the United States of America. 
is allow people to earn legal status where they pay a fine, where they work, where they don't commit crimes, where they learn English, and over an extended period of time, they earn legal status. 
But at the end of the day...I'm gonna tell you this. 
We ought to re-establish sanctions, not just because of the student, but because of their actions that they're taking right now, as it relates to building this missile capability. 
And Jeb, in all fairness, he doesn't believe that. 
All the things that once held our families together are now under constant assault. 
These are terrible people in ISIS, not masterminds. 
And as a policy maker, I must choose which one of these two sides takes precedence. 
If an American missionary has a child abroad, that child is a natural-born citizen. 
The 500,000 who came home with PTSD, and traumatic brain injury. 
If someone had tried to describe today's America to you 30 years ago, you would have listened in disbelief. 
I think we need major reform in the military, making it more cost effective, but also focusing on the real crisis that faces us. 
And by the way, as a senator from a rural state that has virtually no gun control, I believe that I am in an excellent position to bring people together to fight the sensible...
We are one justice away from a Supreme Court that would undermine the religious liberty of millions of Americans and the stakes of this election, for this year, for the Senate, the Senate needs to stand strong and say, "We're not going to give up the U.S. Supreme Court for a generation by allowing Barack Obama to make one more liberal appointee." 
The reality is that both the African-American community and the white community do marijuana at about equal rates. 
Historically, it is important to try to understand your adversary in order to figure out how they are thinking, what they will be doing, how they will react. 
And they didn't find anything, so they said let's look at the next year and the next year. 
Who has the leadership skills who has the leadership skills to lead? 
Look When I announced that I was running for president on June 16th, illegal immigration wasn't even a subject. 
You're saying I can't respond to being called a liar? 
So I've seen every aspect of it, and I can tell you America doesn't have one immigration problem, it has three. 
And as a result of that, the shah of Iran came in, terrible dictator. 
They took those billions and built nuclear weapons. 
In Ronald Reagan, though, in terms of what we're talking about, was the great example. 
But in the meantime, you have somebody right now in North Korea who has got nuclear weapons and who is saying almost every other week, I'm ready to use them. 
Sit down with people like Jeff Miller, the Republican chairman of the house, and work on a bill. 
When I campaigned in Iowa, I took on the lobbyists, took on the corporate welfare and said we should have no ethanol subsidies. 
But you're absolutely right, you know, Rachel, this is another part of the Koch brothers agenda. 
Businesses will now have to pay 16 percent on the money they make. 
That would cost us a lot less than borrowing money from China, paying interest on it. 
And I always say I'm not having Oreos anymore, which is true, by the way. 
What happened, however, is that the Bush administration began to chip away at that process. 
After we have done that, the second thing we have to do is reform and modernize the legal immigration system. 
As primarily the only politician, I guess other than Carly on the stage, they haven't talked about a corporate inversion. 
Because the damage he has done to America is extraordinary. 
And, I would note also the lead negotiator in that failed North Korea sanctions deal was a woman named Wendy Sherman who Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton promptly recruited to come back to be the lead negotiator with Iran. 
My two leading competitors both attacked me for it. 
This is a bank that had $125 million of assets, four branches. 
So what we have tried to do and what President Obama succeeded in doing was to build on the health care system we have, get us to 90 percent coverage. 
No one is answering that question from the Hillary Clinton campaign...
Under longstanding U.S. law, the child of a U.S. citizen born abroad is a natural-born citizen. 
And the fact is that because I took strong action to make sure that anyone who was showing symptoms remember what happened with that nurse. 
And I will tell you, the United States can actually be better than ever before. 
Now, there is a difference between personal insults and attacks between going into the mud with ad hominems and focusing on issues and substance. 
Every proposal they put forward are going to be proposals that will make it harder to do business in America, that will make it harder to create jobs in America. 
I don't think the founders put the Second Amendment as number two by accident. 
You know, from my perspective, maybe because I understand what President Obama inherited, not only the worst financial crisis but the antipathy of the Republicans in Congress, I don't think he gets the credit he deserves for being a president who got us out of that put us on firm ground, and has sent us into the future. 
I've spent like in New Hampshire, I spent $3 million. 
If I'm elected president, we will repeal every word of Obamacare. 
We should not be paralyzed we should not be paralyzed by the Republicans and their constant refrain, "big government this, big government that," that except for what they want to impose on the American people. 
We have a $19 trillion bipartisan debt and it continues to grow as we borrow money from countries that do not like us to pay for government we cannot afford. 
Leadership is ultimately about solving the problem. 
I've done very well over the years through negotiation. 
Now, the real person like it was mentioned about the deal with Iran, how bad a deal is that? 
You know, the mainstream media is laying off Donald now. 
And I agree about the role that he played both in war and in peace on the economy and defeating fascism around the world. 
Today, many of us picked up our newspapers, and we were horrified to see the sight of 10 American sailors on their knees, with their hands on their heads. 
Too much economic power, too much political power, and the economists that I talk to say we should break them up. 
That's what these videos show Planned Parenthood doing. 
You don't have to spell everything out, but what I'm telling you is you look for any means you can to be able to solve that problem in North Korea, and in the meantime put the pressure on the Chinese. 
It was never intended that the government should be in every aspect of our lives. 
Ronald Regan opposed the value tax because he said it was a way to blindfold the people, so the true cost of government was not there there for them. 
We have to prevent the Republicans from ripping it apart. 
They will not do a thing to lower the rise of the sea. 
As it relates to the super PACs, I have no control over that. 
Other people up here, believe me, would be a lot faster. 
We're going to let people in, but they're going to come in legally. 
What you need is a strong American leader who will take the steps that are necessary to protect our nation. 
So let me just tell you, I get along with everybody, which is my obligation to my company, to myself, et cetera. 
And therefore, we have been raising questions about the nine bills that he introduced over 20 years, as to how they would work and what would be the impact on people's health care? 
I just believe deeply that all human life is worthy of protection of our laws. 
As Secretary Clinton may know, I am on the Health Education Labor Committee. 
What I would like for the media now is for us to be talking about why the middle class is disappearing, why we have more people in jail than any other country, why we have massive levels of income and wealth inequality, and we're the only major country on Earth without paid family and medical leave. 
Social Security is meant to be -- to make sure that no one who's worked hard, and played by the rules, and paid into the system grows old in poverty in America. 
Ted Cruz, you used to say you supported doubling the number of green cards, now you say that you're against it. 
That's why as commander in chief, I will take on ISIS, not only because it keeps us safe, but because it allows us to absolutely conduct our religious affairs the way we find in our heart and in our souls. 
Environmental protection we waste all of this money. 
A lot of money's going to come back in, we're going to get rid of the bureaucratic problems, and roadblocks, because that's also a problem. 
If he didn't get laid off, the odds are high he would have had his hours forcibly reduced to 28, 29 hours a week. 
Anybody who evaluates him is knowing what he's doing and managing the government doesn't know how to manage a government themselves. 
And, then they found out with the killing of Katie, from San Francisco, and so many other crimes, they found out that I was right. 
We need to focus on the fact that the next president is going to start in 2017, not in 1990 you know, 30 years ago, or when my brother started. 
They need to be defeated militarily, and that will take overwhelming U.S. force. 
We are doing it the old-fashioned way: 650,000 individual contributions. 
And we have an incredible decision to make, not just about the direction of America, but the identity of our party and of the conservative movement. 
But I'm a progressive who likes to get things done. 
For example, talking about polls, a poll recently came out, overwhelming majority of the American people say we should strengthen the instant background check. 
It's absolutely the case that if people feel that the game is rigged, that has consequences. 
During the course of the evening tonight, I'll have a chance to lay out all of my plans and the work that I've done behind them. 
And we can get a lot of them out if we get the government out of our lives. 
I'm running for president because I'm going to create an economy that works for working families not just billionaires. 
What we ought to do is tighten up our efforts to deal with the entry visa program so that a citizen from Europe, it's harder if they've been traveling to Syria or traveling to these other places where there is Islamic terrorism, make it harder make the screening take place. 
We do have the nuclear weapons agreement with Iran, that's an enforcement consequence, action for action, follow on. 
You have to have a leader that can inspire, and actually some of what Donald was saying is true. 
There are places that get this right, and we need to make sure that we protect the privacy laws. 
I mean, so don't so you can't you can't they don't like the Wall Street Journal. 
Our job is to train and provide military support for Muslim countries in the area who are prepared to take on ISIS. 
OK. I never get to addressed, and...and when I do, I'm gonna jump in. 
We need to harden the grid to defend ourselves, and we need missile defense to protect ourselves against North Korea. 
And then we decided we could bring $14 billion of our money I mean, Washington doesn't have any money. 
But I'm not sure that the way to solve that problem is by increasing all the regulatory burden. 
But, here is a pledge I've made throughout this campaign, and it's really not a very radical pledge. 
That's why I'm running for president, and that's why I'm here today to ask you for your vote. 
Absolutely. You know, I did put together the coalition to impose sanctions. 
And we have to build coalitions, something that I did to take on the Iranian nuclear program, and what I will do as president to make sure that we defeat these terrorist networks. 
Now, I can tell you there are a lot of private-sector things that you could do with $12,500, which will get you a lot more than you get from this government program. 
The problem with President Reagan is we didn't get in there and actually finish the border. 
I won with men, I won with high-income, low-income, I won with Hispanics. 
In 35 out of 50 states, child care costs more than college. 
That's what's going to happen with our enemies and the people we compete against. 
You're seeing cities like San Francisco, cities like Los Angeles doing it, and they are doing it well and workers are able to have more disposable income. 
Well, John, look, I think that what happened when we abided by the agreement that George W. Bush made with the Iraqis to leave by 2011, is that an Iraqi army was left that had been trained and that was prepared to defend Iraq. 
We're going to have people come in, but they're coming in legally. 
It doesn't mean we shouldn't be controlling the border. 
I find it very, very hard to forgive people that deceived me. 
But, you can't be a moderate, you can't a progressive. 
And I will repeal it as president and we will replace it with something substantially better for all Americans. 
I was the chairman of the Budget Committee and the lead architect the last time it happened in Washington, and when we did it we had great economic growth, we cut taxes, and we had a big surplus. 
And believe me, my temperament is very good, very calm. 
And, I'm going to tell you exactly how we're going to deal with it when I am president. 
Now, with Iran, we're making a deal, you would say, we want him. 
I am not a single-issue candidate, and I do not believe we live in a single-issue country. 
The the Jordanian king was in Washington three weeks ago. 
Well, first of all, we're running a $2 billion dollar surplus, we're not having a revenue problem right now. 
That's why all of the independent experts, all of the editorial boards that have vetted both of us have concluded that it is just not achievable. 
We're going to make a really dynamic economy from what we have right now, which is not at all dynamic. 
And unfortunately, those few months gave us President Obama. 
And the world's financial system is on the verge of collapse. 
So you should go out, get a declaratory judgment, let the courts decide. 
Had that actually that same columnist wrote a column comparing me to an evil demonic spirit from the move, "It Follows" that jumps apparently from body to body possessing people. 
When the Social Security program was started in the 1930s, not very many women worked. 
On the issue of Barack Obama, Barack Obama does not believe that America is a great global power. 
So this is the kind of approach that we should take in dealing with what is now...a growing epidemic. 
We need to move America to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050 and create 5 million jobs along the way. 
When Putin came back in the fall of 2011, it was very clear he came back with a mission. 
Family formation is the most important thing in society. 
I have a concrete plan to do just that, which allows people to keep HSAs to encourage savings, it allows for people that are retiring with Social Security to be able to get a minimum of 125 percent of the poverty level so that there is a baseline that in this generous country of ours no one goes below. 
He campaigned promising to lead the fight against amnesty. 
My plan would support any state that takes that position, and would work with those states and encourage more states to do the same thing. 
In those 38 words, it said anyone here illegally is permanently ineligible for citizenship. 
Do you know how many aliens Bill Clinton deported? 
And we have to cut off the flow of foreign funding and foreign fighters. 
And now am the rankings member on the Budget Committee, leader of the Democrats in opposition to the majority Republicans. 
But right now, I want to give people sense of hope, sense of purpose, a sense of unity, sense that we can do it. 
Well, I would not ask anyone to vote for me based on my last name. 
I will instruct the Department of Justice to open an investigation into Planned Parenthood and prosecute any criminal violations. 
Under her leadership, and Obama's leadership, Iran is getting $100 billion dollars, and on the verge of getting a nuclear weapon. 
But most importantly, when you look at what happened in the 1990s, go to berniesanders.com. 
I believe you know politicians much better than I do, because for 40 years, you've been funding liberal Democratic politicians. 
That, in fact, whose lives are in very serious danger, and so I have no problem whatsoever with people of either gender serving in combat so long as the minimum requirements necessary to do the job are not compromised. 
We will build a wall that works and I'll get Donald Trump to pay for it. 
But, there are serious questions about how we're going to pay for what we want to see our country do. 
And it is difficult to in any way argue with the goal that we both share. 
And if I'm president and if Obama has brought some to this country, they are leaving. 
That we have had meetings where 25,000-30,000 people have come out. 
We will have a president willing to utter the words, "radical Islamic terrorism," and the Ayatollah Khamenei will understand that he will never, ever, ever acquire nuclear weapons. 
And they're screaming to us that it's our job to actually make this government work. 
Criminals by definition ignore the law, so you can pass all the gun laws in the world, like the left wants. 
And the reason and the reason no, you already had your chance, Marco, and you blew it. 
In terms of Iran and in terms of Saudi Arabia, of course they hate each other. 
That's what I worry about the most, frankly, is non-state actors, people who don't have a uniform, people don't have a country, who can spread this, who are not subject to the to the mutual assured defense. 
You know, I listen to a wide variety of voices that have expertise in various areas. 
And he did so because taking citizenship off the table was important, and it revealed the hypocrisy of the proponents of this bill, who were looking for votes. 
The second thing we need to do is I think we need to bring together a bipartisan commission to look at getting back to rules- based monetary policy, end this star chamber that has been engaging in this incredible experiment of quantitative easing, QE1, QE2, QE3, QE- infinity. 
And in whatever way the three of us can we need to move this agenda forward and begin to deal with the gun lobby and the intimidation that they present. 
This is the first generation not expected to do better than their parents. 
You know, what people are frustrated about in Washington, D.C.., and I know the folks out there tonight are incredibly frustrated because what they see is a government that doesn't work for them. 
But a lot of what we talked about is words and it will be forgotten very quickly. 
We need to make sure that we do everything across all kinds of energy: natural gas, oil, absolutely. 
So, you're only thing is to get rid of the lines around the states. 
And the patient is in critical condition and will not be cured by political correctness and will not be cured by timidity. 
The real issue is that in area after area, raising the minimum wage to $15 bucks an hour. 
Our country rise up again, but we need to have a compelling conservative agenda that we present to the American people in a way that doesn't disparage people, that unites us around our common purpose. 
They have to come back through a process, and it may not be a very quick process, but I think that's very fair, and very fine. 
But more importantly, in terms of this Libya resolution that you have noted before, this was a virtually unanimous consent. 
I'm not quite the fan of regime change that I believe she is. 
So if they want to come in and attack all the personnel records in the federal government, which they've done, and which they now have my Social Security number and my fingerprints, as well as maybe some other folks' who are on this stage. 
So you know what needs to happen, it's a very simple equation, and it's going to happen when I'm president. 
Much higher numbers than you used to see in the past and here is why. 
It is developing a strategy, leading the world, funding it to make sure that we have a military that's second to none, and doing the job and making sure that we destroy ISIS there. 
And in that meeting, I suggested we had a problem with technology, and that I wanted to take people from Silicon Valley into the Pentagon to solve our most significant problems. 
Three times, she refused to answer the question, because she refuses to be held accountable for anything that goes wrong. 
This president and his former secretary of State are for paying ransom for hostages. 
But when millions of people stand up and are prepared to take on the insurance companies and the drug companies, it will happen, and I will lead that effort. 
Absolutely we shouldn't be sending $500 million of taxpayer money to funding an ongoing criminal enterprise, and I'll tell you, the fact that Republican leadership in both houses has begun this discussion by preemptively surrendering to Barack Obama and saying, "we'll give in because Obama threatens a veto." You know, Obama's committed to his principles. 
We don't want American troops on the ground in Syria. 
The entire system of legal immigration must now be reexamined for security first and foremost, with an eye on ISIS. Because they're recruiting people to enter this country as engineers, posing as doctors, posing as refugees. 
And we do it, when we take on any challenge and when we take we support our friends. 
When you head back to airport tonight, go check and see what the...Check it out. 
I believe we're at the verge of the greatest time to be alive in this world. 
You know, Franklin Delano Roosevelt took the oath of office in 1933 at a time when 25 percent of the American people were unemployed, country was in incredible despair. 
We will not defeat radical Islamic terrorism so long as we have a president unwilling to utter the words, "radical Islamic terrorism". 
In addition to that, Marco went on Univision in Spanish and said he would not rescind President Obama's illegal executive amnesty on his first day in office. 
We must, for the sake of our kids and grandchildren, transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy. 
I was the chairman of the House Budget Committee and one of the chief architects the last time we balanced a budget, and it was the first time we had done it since man walked on the moon. 
If I'm president, there won't be stupid deals anymore. 
Well, Jake, I was named U.S. attorney by President Bush on September 10th, 2001. 
What you saw was a parade of, "I'll give you this for free; I'll give you that for free.
It's not the end of the world that private equity people and hedge fund folks that are, right now, getting capital gains treatment for the income they earn, pay ordinary income like everybody else in this room. 
You know, when Senator Sanders talks about a coalition, I agree with him about that. 
He was overthrown by British and American interests because he threatened oil interests of the British. 
It would allow Assad to stand up to the United States of America, survive a strike, stay in power and actually strengthen his grip. 
And the world wants us to be able to function from strength, believe it or not. 
But it doesn't change my view that we need to empower everyone, women and men, to make the best decisions in their minds that they can make. 
The approach that says that everything is bad, that everything is coming to an end. 
But if you want someone who has a proven, effective leadership, that was a governor of a state, that transformed the culture there, elect me so I can fight for the American people and change the culture in Washington, D.C. , the great majority of Republicans and Americans believe in a hopeful future. 
So what we do, though, is, if there is somebody who is price- gouging, we have laws for prosecutors to take that on. 
I was a very good student at a great school not using by the way not using profanity is very easy. 
I think where we now standcorrect me if I'm wrongyou have 22 delegates, I have 20 delegates. 
The people that have been killed, the people that have wiped away, and for what? 
Hardworking immigrant families living in fear, who should be brought out of the shadows so they and their children can have a better future. 
We've been betrayed by the leadership that Barack Obama and Hilary Clinton have provided to this country over the last number of years. 
How about one that I've done in New Jersey for the last six years. 
So, I'm proud of Senator Sanders, and his supporters. 
We're not we shouldn't have another financial crisis. 
We're not going to solve this problem with traditional politics. 
We are now spending more I believe than the next eight countries on defense. 
We'll never get there if republicans and democrats just fight with one another. 
This has been the fight of the Democratic Party for decades. 
Now that Russia has joined us in the Security Council, has adopted an agreement that we hashed out a long day in Geneva three years ago, now I think we can have those conversations. 
One thing I'll say to Ben is that we've had a graduated tax system for many years, so it's not a socialistic thing. 
You can't leave the White House, go to Hawaii and play golf for three weeks and be a real deal maker. 
I love this country and my dad loved this country, and he was the most proud American because of what it gave him in terms of raising his family, even though we never had much money. 
My plan would enable anyone to go to a public college or university tuition free. 
I think it ought to be a compact -- families contribute, kids contribute. 
The Tsarnaev brothers, the elder brother made a public call to jihad and the Obama administration didn't target it. 
Well, I think what the president understands, and what he's trying to do, is that we have to support the Arab and Kurdish fighters on the ground who are actually doing the fighting. 
But millions and millions of women cervical cancer, breast cancer are helped by Planned Parenthood. 
Millions of Americans have lost their jobs, have been forced into part-time work, have lost their health insurance, have lost their doctors, have seen their premiums skyrocket. 
You know, folks here have talked about, how do you secure the borders? 
They don't think the government is working for them. 
And I had commitments to be at a town hall in New Hampshire. 
You will not pass comprehensive immigration reform. 
And, you know, we have a whole variety of things that they can do and they can do these things simultaneously. 
And when I was governor, I pulled out of the regional cap and trade deal, the only state in the Northeast that did that. 
And the fact is that we have always has believed, as has Ronald Reagan, that we have self-defense for women who have been raped and impregnated because of it, or the subject of incest and been impregnated for it. 
He appointed Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court, someone who has been a radical against the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms. 
We need to be reaching out and unifying our country against terrorist attacks and lone wolves, and working with Muslim Americans. 
If I'm our nominee, we will be the party of the future. 
And I traveled the country and learned how people made jobs. 
I introduced a series of amendments, each designed to fix problems in the bill. 
The reason why I opposed President Obama bombing Syria, is because he couldn't answer the question what do you do if chemical weapons end up in the hands of radical Islamic terrorists like al-Nusra, like Al Qaida, like ISIS? 
And we have to oppose him there in an effective way. 
We need to understand that our nation is in grave danger. 
Maybe I shouldn't have combined the two in the same speech, because the foreign policy part of it didn't get much attention. 
They're pouring in from the Southern border, so I'm talking about great security. 
And so, what you need to do is to engage in a much different way with these folks. 
And rebuild our Military and our intelligence programs so that we can remain the strongest nation on earth. 
And I have to say, it is a great honor to be here tonight.
I can't speak for the Koch Brothers, you're referring to a Super PAC that we don't coordinate with, that was set up to support President Obama, that has now decided that they want to support me. 
But the simple fact is, if a high school kid asks me a question in Spanish, a school by the way, a voucher program that was created under my watch, the largest voucher program in the country, where kids can go to a Christian school, and they ask me a question in Spanish, I'm going to show respect and answer that question in Spanish. 
You don't have to guess about it, because I actually have a record. 
I support what President Obama is doing in terms of trying to close the gun show loop holes and I think it should be a federal crime if people act as dormant. 
And I think we have an opportunity here and I know that inside the administration this is being hotly debated to get that leverage to try to get the Russians to have to deal with everybody in the region and begin to move toward a political, diplomatic solution in Syria. 
And then what he did is redefine the role of government. 
And when we think about our country and the big issues that we face in this country; creating jobs, making sure people can keep their jobs, the need for rising wages, whether our children when they graduate from college can find a job, protecting the homeland, destroying ISIS, rebuilding defense. 
I've watched to see people say that we should dismantle Medicare and Medicaid and leave the senior citizens out out in the in the cold. 
You know how many votes John McCain missed when he was carrying out that furious comeback that you're now modeling after? 
You can't do that without the cooperation of the Muslim world because they're as threatened as we are. 
She's going to want to put more money into a system that has already lied to us and stolen from us. 
When millions of Americans rose up against Obamacare, I was proud to lead that fight. 
He's directly responsible for the murder of over 500 American servicemen in Iraq, and part of this Iranian deal was lifting the international sanctions on General Soleimani. 
We need to be thinking hard about making fundamental changes in the priorities of the Defense Department. 
Sunni cities and villages can only truly be liberated and held by Sunnis themselves. 
That will need to be backed up with more U.S. special operation forces alongside them. 
I would note that Art Laffer, Ronald Reagan's chief economic adviser, has written publicly, that my simple flat tax is the best tax plan of any of the individuals on this stage cause it produces economic growth, it raises wages and it helps everyone from the very poorest to the very richest. 
And the donors, the special interests, the lobbyists have very strong power over these people. 
And when Ted was totally exhausted, he left the Senate floor, and they went back to work. OK? 
We were the first state to do a choose life license plate to raise money for adoption. 
And it gives me no pleasure to tell you that much of what I feared would happen the day after Saddam Hussein was overthrown, in fact, did happen. 
But our goal is, in fact, to try over a period of time to, in fact, deal with our enemies, not just ignore that reality. 
We need to get back in the game as it relates to our Arab nations. 
We're not the American people forget about anything else, they've already been lied to and stolen from. 
Now, that doesn't mean there aren't some people out there who are doing bad things. 
They discussed how how hard it is to sell tractors in China, because all the regulatory barriers. 
I shouldn't tell you guys, you'll say it's terrible, I have a conflict of interest. 
Someone that doesn't brag, for example, that he has been bankrupt four times and it was great, because he could use the legal system. 
Nothing that Secretary Clinton said do I disagree with. 
It is not working in the hispanic community, and I fighting so that everyone who is struggling in the hispanic community and beyond will have a fair and even shake at the American dream. 
Well, that has not been a part of most of the proposals that I've seen. 
He has yet to say he can release past year's tax returns. 
The billionaire and the working man, no hedge fund manager pays less than his secretary. 
When the African American community becomes familiar with my Congressional record and with our agenda, and with our views on the economy, and criminal justice just as the general population has become more supportive, so will the African American community, so will the Latino community. 
And then we're driving towards total transparency. 
There are more words in the IRS code than there are in the Bible and and not a one of them is as good. 
I am, and the people of our country need a president who's on their side, willing to protect the Main Street economy from recklessness on Wall Street. 
You know, if we want to deal with these issues, we have to deal with them in a way that makes sense. 
Had he crossed the line and really gone in with force, done something to Assad if he had gone in with tremendous force, you wouldn't have millions of people displaced all over the world. 
Now, since September, the Constitution hasn't changed. 
You have regulations I mean, come on, they're affecting everybody here, particularly our small businesses. 
Well, it'll start at the kitchen table, we'll see how it goes from there. 
I don't recall them calling for his resignation Later that year, in 2004, John Kerry ran for president missing close to 60 to 70 percent of his votes. 
Here at home, we'll reignite the promise of America. 
And Bernie Sanders will tell them that it's because of the rich. 
May I respond to the critique on the ...I would just...
What the Des Moines Register saidyou know, there were coinI 
Sometimes it's because the Federal Reserve kept interest rates so low that the wealthy were able to invest in in strong assets like the stock market when everybody else was left behind. 
That is why Hillary Clinton cannot win this election. 
We got the kids involved in a whole lot of issues. 
Tell me why we are spending almost three times more than the British, who guarantee health care to all of their people? 
And it is a budget that would radically reduce the amount of money we spend on our military. 
If Hillary is the candidate, which I doubt, that would be a dream come true. 
If you want to watch the video, go to our website at Tedcruz.org. 
Look, in terms of North Korea, Martha, we have to make sure that we intercept both the ships and their aircraft, because what they're trying to do is to proliferate this very dangerous material, along with the with the technology, the instruments that can be used for mass destruction. 
And we've got to get back to where people can save money again, where they can invest in their families, and I don't think a middle-class tax should be part of anybody's plan right now. 
$2 trillion dollars per family, $24,000 per family, that happens to be the same level as the poverty level for a family of four. 
The American people will not support doing anything about people that are in this country illegally until the law is enforced first, and you prove it to them. 
I never attacked him on his look, and believe me, there's plenty of subject matter right there. 
You don't litigate this on the front page of the New York Times, where everybody in the world is reading about their dirty laundry out here. 
And, I also just want to thank the audience for being attentive, and noticing the questions, and the noticing the answers. 
If somebody's already stolen money from you, are you going to give them more? 
New Jersey is the second largest Muslim- American population in America, of any state. 
I see us allowing people to divide us, when in fact our strength is in our unity. 
"If you've saved one life, you've changed the world.
What really matters is this, that executive experience really matters. 
The result of that and we were told then that there were these moderate rebels that would take over. 
I've done it twice; I'll do it thrice for the United States of America. 
They knew they were talking about the issues of attacking people, Megyn. 
Well, you know, everybody on this stage has changed a position or two. 
And I went to one of these Turkish refugee camps right on the border of Syria. 
OK, let me let me let me just talk about that, because I know that that Donald believes the energy industry is important. 
I'm a husband to my best friend, Heidi, who's here tonight. 
If we expect to do this on our own, we will fail but if we do it in unison with people who are also are at risk and threatened by Islamic Radical terrorism, we'll be far more successful. 
So I'm...not taking a back seat to anybody on my values...my principles and the results that I get. 
But I guess the final thing that -- that I would say is this is the kind of debate we need to take to the Republicans in the fall. 
I want to streamline programs that are duplicative and redundant. 
So if you're having Medicare for all, single-payer, you need to level with people about what they will have at the end of the process you are proposing. 
You don't earn the tax credit unless you're working. 
If even in Paris, if they had guns on the other side, going in the opposite direction, you wouldn't have 130 people plus dead. 
Number one, we are in a global competition now, and several of the candidates have said that. 
" The fact is, I built a net worth of more than $10 billion. 
I can only tell you, if I would have used even half of that word, it would have been national scandal. 
But to build a wall, and to deport people half a million a month would cost hundreds of billions of dollars, Donald. 
And there's a reason why Hillary's supporters are echoing Donald's attacks on me, because Hillary...wants to face Donald Trump in the general election. 
He doesn't want to hear the talk about politics Megyn and who is establishment and who is grassroots. 
Puerto Rico is asking for bankruptcy protection which would give Puerto Rico, and Puerto Ricans, which are U.S. citizens, you know that the tools to restructure the debt. 
And then, most importantly, here at home, I think there are three things that we have to get right. 
They know that this country is pushing the middle class, the hardworking taxpayers, backwards, and they saw a president who doesn't understand their pain, and doesn't have any plan for getting away from it. 
As a young student in Nevada said to me, the hardest thing about going to college should not be paying for it. 
Terrorism is on the run, China, Russia is advancing their agenda at warp speed, and we pull back. 
We're not even bombing if somebody's driving a truck, they give notice to the person driving the truck, "we're going to bomb." If they don't get out of the truck, the truck sails away with the oil. 
I think as Secretary Clinton knows, there is nobody who fought harder. 
A gangster in Moscow is not just threatening Europe, he's threatening to destroy and divide NATO. 
We took a loan against our assets to invest it in that campaign to defend ourselves against those attacks. 
What I said to the New York Times, is that, "we have great power, economic power over China and if we wanted to use that and the amount where the 45 percent comes in, that would be the amount they saw their devaluations that we should get." That we should get. 
If I'm the nominee, I will pledge I will not run as an independent. 
If we don't have a strong military than no one fears us, and they take actions that are against our national interest. 
There's a reason Gun Owners of America has endorsed me in this race. 
All without any government mandates whatsoever through the marketplace. 
And they've paid their fees, and they hired a lawyer, and they can't get in. 
Coming here legally should be a lot easier than coming here illegally. 
But most importantly, we give them a menu, just like we do in Medicare Part C, and they have the choices that will allow them not only to have catastrophic health care, but drug care and everything else. 
Well Senator, let me just correct the record if I can. 
Just excuse me, one second, Rand...If you don't mind, Rand you know, you are on last you do have your 1 percent. 
They have too much economic power and they have too much financial power over our entire economy. 
I think we have a disagreement, and the disagreement is that not only did I vote against the war in Iraq. 
We're going to take care of people that are dying on the street because there will be a group of people that are not going to be able to even think in terms of private or anything else and we're going to take care of those people. 
You think it has anything to do with the huge amounts of campaign contributions and lobbying from the fossil fuel industry? 
If I'm elected president our friends and allies across the globe will know that we stand with them. 
And that's what this economy needs to that's what this debate needs to be about. 
I'm running for president because we have a campaign finance system which is corrupt, where billionaires are spending hundreds of millionaires of dollars to buy candidates who will represent their interests rather than the middle class and working families. 
If they've had a bad record, if they've been arrested, if they've been in jail, they're never coming back. 
When that battle was waged, my friend Senator Rubio chose to stand with Barack Obama and Harry Reid and Chuck Schumer and support amnesty. 
What I'd like to do, and I'll be putting in the plan in about two weeks, and I think people are going to like it, it's a major reduction in taxes. 
I think there is a way to get this done by giving governors the ability to be able to act to defund Planned Parenthood. 
No less than 185,000 active duty marines in the Marine Corps. 
And we did come up with the first international agreement that China has signed. 
He pushed through, and he passed the Dodd-Frank regulation, the toughest regulations since the 1930's. 
I do not accept the belief that the United States of America and our government can't stand up to the ripoffs of the pharmaceutical industry which charge us by far the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. 
What we have to start thinking about, as leaders, particularly in government, is what can we do for the average American? 
He was a somewhat liberal Democrat who became a somewhat, pretty strong conservative. 
Justice Scalia in the history of the republic, there has never been anyone better than him at standing for the principle that the Constitution is not a living and breathing document it is supposed to be applied as originally meant. 
And our policies should be aimed at allowing people to realize that dream. 
So this is a major epidemic, and it has hit New Hampshire and Vermont particularly hard. 
It brought booming economic growth and that growth fueled rebuilding the military. 
And that's what we should focus on is the violence in our communities. 
We cut business taxes $2.3 billion, and we cut regulation by one-third of what my predecessor put in place. 
The Koch brothers, by the way, want to destroy Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, every governmental program passed since the 1930s. 
Now, Major, the business flat tax that is in my tax plan is not a VAT. 
But, I just don't' want to see government be part of killing. 
And I said to them, tell me when a veteran gets in to the V.A., understanding there are waiting lines and real problems, when a veteran gets into the system, is the quality of care good? 
Nuclear needs to be back on the table in a significant way in this country if we want to go after this problem. 
They were watching the humiliation of our young ten sailors, sitting on the floor with their knees in a begging position, their hands up. 
You've got to bring back the 21st century Glass-Steagall legislation and you've got to break up these huge financial institutions. 
And I can't do that as well as a negotiator, I cannot do that as well if I'm taking big, big sides. 
If we grow at 4 percent, people are going to be lifted out of poverty. 
I want you all to mention me when you say something. 
About every two weeks, he holds a press conference talking about how he can't wait to restrict people's access to guns. 
When you talk about the long-term consequences of war, let's talk about the men and women who came home from war. 
They did it under a more than 100-year-old statute called the Dead Horse Act. 
That is principally an American-led air campaign that we are now engaged in. 
And I think this is this is typical Republican scare tactics. 
Bergdahl, we get Bergdahl, a traitor, and they get five of the big, great killers leaders that they want. 
And at the end of the day, it was the president's decision. 
Clearly, we have to have a very specific set of actions to take. 
You know, we have a war on virtual everything race wars, gender wars, income wars, religious wars, age wars. 
I'm the only person on the stage and one of the few people in this country that led the effort as the chief architect of the last time we balanced the federal budget. 
Her husband, Chris, was killed in action in Afghanistan. 
And nobody ever mentions North Korea where you have this maniac sitting there and he actually has nuclear weapons and somebody better start thinking about North Korea and perhaps a couple of other places. 
We all know you can't pick them up and ship them across, back across the border. 
Look, the truth is that a powerful nation like the United States, certainly working with our allies, we can overthrow dictators all over the world. 
We have to save the Consumer Financial Protection board, which is finally beginning to act to protect consumers. 
Because under the Fourth Amendment, a search and seizure is reasonable if it has judicial authorization and probable cause. 
And if people want to help us out, BernieSanders.com. 
Everything that we should do should be focused on high, sustained economic growth, where the middle class gets a raise for the first time, and where people are rewarded for work, rather than non-work. 
So, we'll get to the point where we'll talk about Hillary Clinton, or whoever the nominee is, record. 
Well, first of all, the the 14th Amendment says very, very clearly to a lot of great legal scholars not television scholars, but legal scholars that it is wrong. 
Cherry picking a quote here or there doesn't change my record of having fought for racial justice, having fought for kids rights, having fought the kind of inequities that fueled my interest in service in the first place going back to my days in the Children's Defense Fund. 
And little false little things, sir, they don't really work when it comes to the truth. 
And my reading of the law and the Constitution convinces me that the President has the authority that he is attempting to exercise with respect to dreamers and their parents, because I think all of us on this stage agree that we need comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship. 
And guess what, I just went to a wedding of a friend of mine who happens to be gay. 
And number two, says the greatest national security threat facing America is a nuclear Iran. 
And we have people that have no idea how to do that and they are not doing it, and it's a very important word and it's something I believe in very, very strongly. 
It makes it very difficult to cooperate with them as a result. 
That, inevitably, is when a politician doesn't plan to end it at all. 
We have a criminal justice system which is broken. 
I, like you, am a member of we, the people, and we know that our country is heading off the cliff. 
We don't know, no one knows for sure because they haven't done the appropriate studies, but there's no question that kids' intellectual development may have been impacted. 
And I hope I can have your vote in South Carolina.
In 2008, Barack Obama missed 60 or 70 percent of his votes, and the same newspaper endorsed him again. 
.we've gotten into this -- this mindset of fighting politically correct wars. 
They've done such a good job, since his since his death. 
He voted for immunity from gunmakers and sellers which the NRA said, "was the most important piece of gun legislation in 20 years. " 
Let me tell you, if you're a parent that's struggling, then you know that $50 a month is the difference between a new pair of shoes this month or not getting a new pair of shoes for your kids. 
But I thought it was very unfair that virtually the entire early portion of the debate was Trump this, Trump that, in order to get ratings, I guess. 
We went after companies that were doing things that were against the law. 
And when you have one of the, I think, significant public health crises of recent years, of course the federal government comes in. 
We have in Social Security right now thousands and thousands of people that are over 106 years old. 
And I give Senator Sanders a lot of credit for really lighting a fire under many people -- young, old, everybody -- who sees a chance to be involved and have their voice heard. 
Well, I'm certainly going to unite the party, but I'm notI'm not getting ahead of myself. 
Guaranteeing that women's work finally gets the pay, the equal pay that we deserve. 
I would support the possibility of renewed airstrikes if in conjunction with our Joint Chiefs and our military people they felt that was an appropriate strategy. 
Barack Obama's plan, which John Kerry later described as unbelievably small, and I concluded that that attack would not only not help the situation, it would make it actually worse. 
The reality is four times as many blacks get arrested for marijuana. 
But that's not an accurate description of the plan. 
And what I've said, Hugh, is that, look, where does it end? 
And I will also go after executives who are responsible for the decisions that have such bad consequences for our country. 
Here's my promise-- Wall Street representatives will not be in my cabinet. 
But I'm against the recreational use against marijuana. 
And I ask you to join me in truth and honesty and integrity. 
It won't have an impact on hedge funds managers paying ordinary income. 
In my opinion, we've spent $4 trillion trying to topple various people that frankly, if they were there and if we could've spent that $4 trillion in the United States to fix our roads, our bridges, and all of the other problems; our airports and all of the other problems we've had, we would've been a lot better off. 
We've been around a cumulative quite some period of time. 
And the final thing I would say, bringing Donald Trump back into it, if you're going to put together a coalition in the region to take on the threat of ISIS you don't want to alienate the very countries and people you need to be part of the coalition. 
I have great respect for Senator Sanders's commitment to try to restore Glass-Steagall. 
And that will lower the cost of your catastrophic insurance tremendously, because the only thing coming out of that is catastrophic health care. 
I think there is a vast majority in this country who want to do the right thing, and I intend to lead the country in bringing our people together. 
And if you don't have that, then you will have a refundable tax credit that provides you health care money to buy your own health care coverage. 
Well, we've had a number of economists supporting our legislation. 
And hiding it from the American people, so that the majority of people have no idea what our financial situation is. 
For most of his life, his policies have been very, very liberal. 
Regulations in this country are out of control, especially the Employment Prevention Agency, the EPA, and all of the rules they continue to impose on our economy and hurting us. 
We had a murderous dictator, Gadhafi, who had American blood on his hands, as I'm sure you remember, threatening to massacre large numbers of the Libyan people. 
We both want to reign in the excesses of Wall Street. 
You won't have to worry when I'm President of the Untied States whether that can be done because I've already done it. 
The vision from FDR and Harry Truman was health care for all people as a right in a cost-effective way. 
If we are not successful, if we continue the same old, same old of Washington being run by corporate lobbyists and big-money interests, nothing changes. 
Forty percent of the people in this country illegally are entering legally and overstaying visas. 
Not just for this campaign three years ago, I proposed a law that we signed into effect, which said that anyone who was a non- violent, non-dealing, first-time drug offender no longer goes to prison in New Jersey. 
As president of the United States, I will be a commander in chief that will have the back of the military. 
I do for very limited, particularly heinous crimes believe it is an appropriate punishment, but I deeply disagree with the way that too many states are still implementing it. 
Because I don't think the Governor had too much to do with this. 
When I am president of the United States of America, there will never be any cap-and-trade in the United States. 
ARRARAS: The first part of the question is, there was a report that recommended that in order to approach Hispanics and bring them to vote for the Republican Party, certain things needed to happen. 
I support NAFTA. I believe in the PTT because it's important those countries in Asia are interfacing against China. 
We said to the South Koreans that we would give them the high altitude defense system. 
You don't have one Republican you don't have one Republican senator, and you work with them every day of your life, although you skipped a lot of time. 
So to all the young people that are out there, your hopes, your dreams, pursue them. 
You know, every candidate running for president says they will stand up to Washington. 
The drive-by shot at the beginning with incorrect and incomplete information and then the memorized 25-second speech that is exactly what his advisers gave him. 
If you're in the business of selling things, if you're not going to sell to somebody you don't agree with, OK, today I'm not going to sell to somebody who's gay, and tomorrow maybe I won't sell to somebody who's divorced. 
If you reform the corporate tax system in this country, which, as was mentioned before, is the highest rate in the world and we double tax, as you know. 
I'm going to whine because I didn't get asked about taxes, I didn't get asked about Israel. 
I believe in action in which we put together a strong coalition of forces, major powers and the Muslim nations. 
Secondly, several years ago, a movie was made about these hands. 
It is too expensive, too hard to access, and it doesn't teach 21st century skills. 
We had churches before that and charitable organizations before that. 
Excuse me, there are wonderful things having to do with women's health. 
I think we also have to have two minimum wages, a starter, and a sustaining because how are young people ever going to get a job if you have such a high minimum wage that it makes it impractical to hire them...
As president...I will repeal every word of Obamacare. 
We need to address our security issues, we need to address the economic issues around the kitchen table. 
And it's important all three of them are critical. 
When you're a governor, you're held accountable for everything you do. 
Let's do more -- let's do more than reverse the immunity. Let's...
We're going to make sure that those kids stay in school or are able to get a college education. 
There is nobody on this stage that has done more for Israel than I have. 
To hire the 20,000 new border agents, to finish the fencing and walls, to put in place mandatory e-verify, to put in place an entry-exit tracking system to prevent visa overstays. 
I do not support the United States getting involved in unilateral action. 
And that I believe we're seeing a fall in our relationships with Iran is a very positive step. 
Well, first of all, I want to make sure every child gets health care. 
Under each of those three parts of my plan, I have very specific recommendations about what to do. 
Senator Rubio, you accused Senator Cruz in a previous debate of lying when he said that you said one thing in Spanish and another one in English. 
I didn't give as much money as Donald gave, but I've been standing with the Israelis for a very long time. 
So Donald, you know, is great at at the one-liners, but he's a chaos candidate. 
We're asking the top 1.5 percent, including passive income, to start paying a little bit more so that the elderly and disabled vets in this country can live with security and dignity. 
And they will work with me to get comprehensive immigration reform. 
Every step along the way I have stood up, and fought, and have the scars to prove it. 
We got a nuclear arms deal, we got the Iranian sanctions, we got an ability to bring important material and equipment to our soldiers in Afghanistan. 
In my case, whether it's health care, or getting us to debt-free tuition, or moving us toward paid family leave, I have been very specific about where I would raise the money, how much it would cost, and how I would move this agenda forward. 
And I would give them a six-month period in which to get registered as a guest worker, assuming that they have an acceptable record. 
This president and John Kerry and Hillary Clinton all have made it harder for the next president to act, but he must act to confront the ambitions of Iran. 
Our Medicare for all single-payer proposal will save the average middle class family $5,000 a year. 
When the Republicans when the Republicans in the Congress and some Democrats were talking about cutting Social Security and benefits for disabled veterans, for the so-called chained CPI, I founded a caucus called the Defending Social Security Caucus. 
This is a responsibility for the U.S. Justice Department to get involved. 
And I won't be angry when we fix it, but until we fix it, I'm very, very angry. 
I think it's great that Senator Sanders, President Obama and I have more donors than any three people who have every run, certainly on the Democratic side. 
The real problem isn't anybody on this stage, the real problem is Barack Obama has had six years to advocate a position to fix this and he's done nothing. 
The Dodd-Frank bill and then to sign it was one of the most important regulatory schemes we've had since the 1930s. 
The media has not asked them a single question on abortion and on abortion, the Democrats are extremists. 
You know what the shame is you know what the shame is, Marco? 
Well, (inaudible) the major issue right now is whether or not we reestablish Glass-Steagall. 
This president has seen personnel records of people who have sacrificed for the American people and for the federal government stolen by the Chinese and he's done nothing in return. 
And of course I'm going to defend Social Security. 
No one is no let me let me suggest to you we believe that we operate better in the world when our allies work with us. 
Russia has enhanced its position because of Obama's weakness in the Middle East, weakness in Syria. 
And that includes people in our minority community; that includes people who feel as though they don't have a chance to move up. 
Well first of all, the idea that somehow we're better off today than the day that Barack Obama was inaugurated president of the United States is totally an alternative universe. 
And the people who are often the most hard-hit are widows, because when their spouse dies, they can lose up to one-half of their Social Security monthly payment. 
And we're not going to authorize use of force if you're not put in a position where they can win. 
That the most basic responsibility of an administration is to protect the safety and security of the American people. 
For example, all right, who in America denies that we have an infrastructure that is crumbling? 
I want to open up the opportunity for immigrants to be able to buy in to the exchanges under the Affordable Care Act. 
If I'm so fortunate to be chosen, I think I'll do very well. 
Because so many people have done so much less than her, and they were absolutely their lives have been destroyed. 
I trust Kasich and Christie to build the roads and the infrastructure of their states than Washington, D.C. 
I have been for the Brady bill, I have been against assault weapons. 
And is using to build up his military in a rapid way despite the fact his economy is a disaster. 
So, I mean this may seem like a bit of an arcane discussion. 
But now, because Washington is out of touch, for the fault of both political parties, for the first time in our history, that is in doubt. 
When the teachers unions attacked me with $20 million of ads because I wanted to reform teacher tenure, I fought them and fought them and fought them and I won. 
I've said myself, we will not send American combat troops back to either Syria or Iraqthat is off the table. 
And I've done it in Ohio by having the elected officials realize that they're Ohioans before anything else. 
I feel a very, very strong bind, and really I'm bound to this country, we either have a border or we don't. 
Their supreme desire was to be settled back in their own country. 
They love the area, they love the people, they love all the people. 
Eight billion in the hole, $2 billion surplus, up over 300,000 jobs, big tax cuts, strengthening our credit. 
I think what President Obama did was to exemplify the importance of this issue as our first African American president, and to address it both from the President's office, and through his advocacy, such as working with young men, and Mrs. Obama's work with young women. 
And that's the Ohio Class submarine that needs to be modernized. 
And, it's really time that the government get out of the way, and let the people be the ones who decide how they want to run their country. 
We did not put one single American soldier on the ground in Libya. 
Now, Secretary Clinton's Super PAC, as I understand it, received $25 million dollars last reporting period, $15 million dollars from Wall Street. 
Who said That think we should normalize relations with Iran tomorrow? 
She made a public call to jihad, and they didn't target it. 
But, by the way, when it comes to a woman having to make a very personal choice, ah, in that case, my Republican colleagues love the government and want the government to make that choice for every woman in America. 
The officer who told the victims of the San Bernardino killings that he would take a bullet before them. 
And you could still have thousands of dollars left over. 
Kissinger was one of those people during the Vietnam era who talked about the domino theory. 
Well, I'll tell you what, with Hillary Clinton, I said be at my wedding and she came to my wedding. 
It's a simple formula: common sense regulations, which is why I think we should freeze all federal regulations for one year, except for health and safety. 
And then some people say you're weak because, you know, you're not loud and you're not boisterous and you're not rude. 
They can't see the government as an adversary, we can't see them as obstructionists. 
And I was very proud to get the endorsement of the Planned Parenthood Action Fund, because I've been a leader on these issues. 
So no amount of experience really prepares you to do something that has never been done before. 
But I think it's important, since I understand Senator Webb's very strong feelings about this, to explain where we were then and to point out that I think President Obama made the right decision at the time. 
first of all, let me just tell you something and you know, because you just saw the numbers yourself NBC Wall Street Journal just came out with a poll headline: Trump way up, Cruz going down. 
And then you stayed there for 36 hours and then he left and came back to campaign. 
Ronald Reagan evolved into a somewhat strong conservative more importantly, he was a great president. 
I was had just gotten my first job coming out of law school. 
The 68 percent of the people are wrong about that, it will hurt the American economy. 
Yes, and it was the same one that President Obama made. 
Well, I think the experience is not just what you did, but how it worked out. 
If it were possible to separate the federal from the state system by the Supreme Court, that would, I think, be an appropriate outcome. 
It wasn't the bill that I wanted, but yet it turned out to be one of the more significant pieces of veterans' legislation passed in recent history. 
At the core of that resolution is an agreement I negotiated in June of 2012 in Geneva, which set forth a cease-fire and moving toward a political resolution, trying to bring the parties at stake in Syria together. 
And every time he has acted anywhere in the world, whether it's in Ukraine or Georgia before that, or now in the Middle East, it's because he is trusting in weakness. 
" Let me tell you, everybody, when they say they want to give it to you for free, keep your hands on your wallets because they're coming to you to pay for it. 
Well, under the definition of torture, no, it's not. 
More importantly, I want kids in Burlington, Vermont, or Baltimore, Maryland, who are in the sixth grade or the eighth grade, who don't have a lot of money, whose parents -- like my parents -- may never have gone to college. 
Millions of people are going to have to stand up, turn off the TV, get involved in the political process and tell the big- money interest that we are taking back our country. 
The fact is in New Jersey, what we have done is to make it easier now to get a conceal and carry permit. 
Wait a minute, he has basically used his answer to impune my integrity. 
And we need to get the Europeans to be more willing to stand up, I was pleased they put sanctions on after Crimea and eastern Ukraine and the downing of the airliner, but we've got to be more united in preventing Putin from taking a more aggressive stance in Europe and the Middle East. 
I voted against that piece of legislation because it had guest-worker provisions in it which the Southern Poverty Law Center talked about being semi-slavery. 
On the other hand, the fact that we've managed to reach an agreement, something that I've very strongly supported that prevents Iran from getting a nuclear weapon and we did that without going to war. 
And it is imperative that we do more not only to help our friends and partners protect themselves and protect our own homeland, but also to work to try to deal with this arc of instability, which does have a lot of impact on what happens in a country like Libya. 
Every (inaudible) Democrat and senator in support of this proposal introduced by your good friend and my good friend, Kirsten Gillibrand, Rosa DeLauro, that is the legislation out there that will finally provide family and medical leave. 
And I think that where he was, and the way it came out didn't sound right to me. 
Colin Powell, who is one of the most distinguished generals in modern time, said there were weapons there. 
I thought, if I didn't jump in, I might not be able to tell everybody this. 
I think everybody is in agreement that we are a great entrepreneurial nation. 
And there is a lot we can do in college affordability. 
And, sending mixed signals to kids about drugs is a disaster. 
Well, let me just you know, he wants to be a tough guy. 
Well, the United States military was not build to conduct pinprick attacks. 
You know, in a Republican primary, everyone talks tough on immigration. 
They are a sophisticated purveyor of propaganda, a celebrator of violence, an instigator of attacks using their online presence. 
Right now, corporations, by the thousands, are thinking of leaving our country with the jobs leave them behind. 
If you do, you are going to have many, many more James Foleys. 
So let's demand open trade but fair trade in this country. 
That's a part of the problem and I am going right at them. 
You have people that you think are our great allies, our friends, in the Middle East, that are paying tremendous numbers of tremendous amounts of money to ISIS. 
We should have a support for the remnants of the Syrian Free Army, and create safe zones. 
Well, Jake, you know, I'm I'm very glad that Donald Trump's being in this race has forced the mainstream media finally to talk about illegal immigration. 
You know, we all have our own individual interpretations of our faith. 
We're not using the tools we have, and it's because the commander in chief is not focused on defeating the enemy. 
We have 800,000 bureaucrats working for DOD, performing bureaucratic functions when we ought to be putting...these resources into strengthening the military. 
And, I don't disagree with ending Congress' retirement program. 
Otherwise, your employers can provide you health care money, tax- free, not treated as income, and you can use that money only for health care, but you can use it to fund health care any way you want, fully fund a health savings account, the combination of a health savings account or a private plan from any company in any state in the country. 
And I will be laying out in detail, what I think we need to do with our friends and allies in Europe and elsewhere to do a better job of coordinating efforts against the scourge of terrorism. 
Well, you know, governor, I know that when you had a chance to appoint a commissioner for financial regulation, you chose an investment banker in 2010. 
And I think the Fed should get out of the business of trying to juice our economy and simply be focused on sound money and monetary stability, ideally tied to gold. 
And I will tell you, as a former Congressman, and an executive, in Ohio, I can promise you that I believe you'll get the votes to pass that, and we can move on with that issue and protect our border. 
John, the thing is, is I think that there are people now, these blue-collar Democrats my dad was a blue-collar Democrat the Democratic Party has left them. 
I personally am thrilled at the numbers of people, and particularly young people who are coming to support your campaign. 
But you have to continue to face them, because our goal is not to contain them, but to destroy them before they destroy us. 
I think we could have let the Japanese know that if you want to take action on that on that missile that's rising, you want to take action you will have our support, if that's what you think is the best thing to do. 
That is why we have troops in Iraq that are helping to train and build back up the Iraqi military, why we have special operators in Syria working with the Kurds and Arabs, so that we can be supportive. 
I'd rather get them their medication so they could lead a decent life. 
If Donald Trump is president, he will appoint liberals. 
You know, I can remember, as a youngster you know, my first job working in a laboratory as a lab assistant, and multiple other jobs. 
And it's a tax you find in many companies in Europe. 
My father used to say, "Johnny, we never we don't hate the rich. 
The majority of our country supports background checks, and even the majority of gun owners do. 
It is not I couldn't even imagine how we would even begin to think about taking a mom or a dad out of a house when they have not committed a crime since they've been here, leaving their children in the house. 
The president wants to do things without working with his Congress, without working with the legislature, and without getting the consent of the American people. 
And I also have detailed plans to fix the mess in Washington, D.C. 
And what happened is friends of mine years ago were going to have a child, and it was going to be aborted. 
You decide what to do after, you can't fight two wars at one time. 
And we all know, no argument, the secretary is absolutely right, Assad is a butcher of his own people, man using chemical weapons against his own people. 
They're grateful to be able to make a lot of money, I'm sure. 
So let's not just be narrowly focused on one part of the problem. 
We're going to get a plan where people compete, free enterprise. 
We will when I am president of the United States, on my first day in office, we are canceling the deal with Iran, and nations will have to make a choice. 
And I tell you, we won't have to spend time figuring what we're going to do. 
See, maybe maybe because I'm from New Jersey, I just have this kind of plain language hangup. 
But what I did gain from those jobs is a tremendous amount of experience, and how to operate in the world and how to relate to different people, and how to become a responsible individual. 
We have to provide the NATO support to back up the mission that is going on. 
Yes, it's an important issue because we know and love people that have been impacted by it. 
It sounds like what he is outlining is not to lead at all. 
But you can't do any of that until you prove to people that illegal immigration is under control once and for all. 
I will do everything I can to make certain that the United States and our brave men and women in the military do not get bogged down in perpetual warfare in the Middle East. 
But I think in Syria the primary focus now must be on destroying ISIS and working over the years to get rid of Assad. 
And the reason why I argued we needed to get involved is because he was going to go one way or the other. 
But Jeb is also right that, if we just impose a tariff, they'll put reciprocal tariffs, which will hurt Iowa farmers and South Carolina producers and 20 percent of the American jobs that depend on exports. 
I also remember that he spent the last day of his life in Memphis, fighting for dignity and higher pay for working people. 
Well, first, Judy, I have spent my entire adult life working toward making sure that women are empowered to make their own choices, even if that choice is not to vote for me. 
We should have gotten rid of the lines around each state so we can have real competition. 
I mean, endless debates about how many angels on the head of a pin from people who've never had to make a consequential decision in an executive position. 
But the other thing that I want to bring up is, I mentioned something earlier. 
Justice Scalia understood that better than anyone in the history of this republic. 
Ever since the attacks of September 11th 30 seconds. 
It was LULAC, one of the large Latino organizations in this country. 
I think it's fair to say that Baltimore is not now one of the safest cities in America, but the issue is...O'MALLEY: 
We do that by doing away with the absurd loophole that now allows major profitable corporations to stash their money in the Cayman Islands, and not in some years, pay a nickel in taxes. 
You vote for me, and we will unite this party, we will grow the conservative movement, we will defeat Hillary Clinton, and we will leave our children what our parents left us. 
I think the American people will be very reasonable, but responsible, about how you handle someone who has been here a long time, who can pass a background check, who pays a fine and starts paying taxes and all they want is a work permit. 
It's able to protect your body against bad bugs, not necessarily because it outnumbers them, but it's better connected the fusion centers, the biosurveillance systems, better prepared first responders. 
What we have got to do is make it clear that any police officer who breaks the law will, in fact, be held accountable. 
And some of them, I will say, not all, have called me and said, "Donald, thank you very much; you're exposing an unbelievable problem and we have to get to the bottom of it." 
Well, look, I'm an old-fashioned person here, and I happen to believe in traditional marriage. 
We need to repeal Obamacare completely and replace it with a system that puts Americans in charge of their health care money again. 
But we also need to have a very clear set of goals that we are going to achieve, and we need to level with the American people about what they are, what they will cost, what will be expected of our citizenry. 
So those are some of the areas that I think we've got to move on. 
But I do think the natural impulse on the left Hillary Clinton, immediately after one of these horrific violent acts took place, immediately said we need to have federal gun laws. 
They didn't because they didn't run the actual law as it exists now. 
The fact is, that I believe that if a woman has been raped, that is a birth and a pregnancy that she should be able to terminate. 
Well, let me be clear, if Donald engages in insults or anybody else, I don't intend to reciprocate. 
I've had had two town halls, one in Keene, one in Laconia, dedicated exclusively to talking about what we can do. 
And that's really a theme of a lot of the things that I'm talking about. 
Well, we've gotta turn the economy around for people who are struggling. 
And, this is what I am finding throughout America. 
But, yes, I would like students to work 10 hours a week...
This is who we're dealing with, and they have more money than Al Qaida ever had. 
Beginning to explore whether they could make some inroads in the Baltics. 
If I ask them, if I need them, you know, most of the people on this stage I've given to, just so you understand, a lot of money. 
Apple initially came out saying, "We're being ordered to create a back door to an encryption device." That is not accurate. 
We need somebody who can balance budgets, cut taxes...
Let me agree with Governor O'Malley and let me agree with Secretary Clinton. 
I've been held accountable for six years as the governor of New Jersey and with a Democratic legislature, I've gotten conservative things done. 
He could have gotten all of the protections of being a whistleblower. 
Title X of the HHS funding, there is something that was the "Reagan Rule.
Once again, the Obama administration, encouraged by Republicans, toppled Mubarak who had been a reliable ally of the United States, of Israel, and in its place, Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood came in, a terrorist organization. 
I think a lot of the Libyans who had been forced out of their country by Gadhafi who came back to try to be part of a new government, believed they knew what to do and it turned out that they were no match for some of the, you know, militaristic forces inside that country. 
First of all, she is talking about, as I understand it, a no-fly zone in Syria, which I think is a very dangerous situation. 
What reckless is is inviting Russia into Syria to team with Iran. 
Well, I spent five and a half years as a Solicitor General of Texas, the lead lawyer for the state, in front of the U.S. Supreme Court, and I went in front of the Supreme Court, and took on the world court of the United Nations in a case called Medellin v. Texas, and we won a historic victory saying the World Court, and the U.N., has no power to bind the United States, and no President of the United States, Republican or Democrat, has the authority to give away our sovereignty. 
Well, the problem with the Sunni forces in the region is they don't trust this administration. 
What I'm saying, Dana, is that is a judgment for every voter to make. 
This president cut a deal with their moral enemy, the Shia, in Iran. 
I have to respect the person that, if it's not me, the person that wins, if I do win, and I'm leading by quite a bit, that's what I want to do. 
So I'm very committed to both going after ISIS but also supporting what Secretary Kerry is doing to try to move on a political diplomatic to try to begin to slow down and hopefully end the carnage in Syria which is the root of so many of the problems that we seen in the region and beyond. 
So I say, it's a very bad deal, should not be approved. 
I want people hear to think what we would be doing if it was one out of three white men, and very often, the black men are arrested, convicted and incarcerated for offensive that do not lead to the same results for white men. 
What we need to do is be looking for solutions tonight. 
It allowed for resources to be able to protect the natural system. 
I think it's time to put the government back on their backs. ...
You look at what's going on with ISIS in there, now think of this: we're fighting ISIS. ISIS wants to fight Syria. 
I in no way am willing to get in the bed with special interest group or lick the boots of billionaires. 
I trust the state capitals to be the place to be the source of innovation and reform in this country. 
On John Kerry, yes, you know why, because every day John Kerry wasn't appointed was another day Hillary Clinton was still in charge of the State Department. 
But we have to I'm the only one on this stage that said: "Do not go into Iraq. 
It is worse today than it was three years ago, which is worse than it was five years ago. 
I want to build on and improve the Affordable Care Act. 
But where I think we do have an honest disagreement, is that in the incredible quagmire of Syria, where it's hard to know who's fighting who and if you give arms to this guy, it may end up in ISIS' hand the next day. 
You know, in our country, there are a lot of people who feel as though they just don't have the power. 
Well, first off, let's face it, the FBI director James Comey was a friend of mine who I worked with as U.S. Attorney of New Jersey. 
I don't think you'd even be asking this question if I didn't run because when I ran, and I brought this up, my opening remarks at Trump Tower, I took heat like nobody has taken heat in a long time. 
I'll tell you what, if the kids in a rich suburb of Detroit had been drinking contaminated water and being bathed in it, there would've been action. 
You've got to be able to bring together conservatives and evangelicals and libertarians, and stitch together a winning majority. 
So I'm going to come up with the best way forward. 
Well, I would shut down make I'd shut down what exists right now is that virtually every telephone call in this country ends up in a file at the NSA. That is unacceptable to me. 
Our next president, and our Republican nominee can not be someone who supports those positions. 
We are paying the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs, getting ripped off. 
And those who want to destroy us are trying to divide us, and we shouldn't let them do it. 
We are going to cut many of the agencies, we will balance our budget, and we will be dynamic again. 
It will be an America that be strong and resolute, and will once again be able to stick out its chest and say, "we truly are the greatest nation in the world, because we live our lives that way, each and every day."
Who is satisfied that millions of people have police records for possessing marijuana when the CEO's of Wall Street companies who destroyed our economy have no police records. 
The Sunni, the Shia and the Kurds, never gotten along. 
But, we face, also, a bigger war and you win the bigger war with the battle of ideas. 
We are now at a time when we need more tools, not less tools. 
And there is no reason that you can't be perfectly fair to the gay community. 
It will provide three months paid family and medical leave for the working families of this country. 
One of the worst contracts of any kind I've ever seen. 
When we take the drug addicted and we treat them in the prisons, we stop the revolving door of people in and out of prisons, and we save $22,500 a year. 
If we don't know who you are, or why you're coming, you will not get into the United States. 
We don't need the federal government to be involved in this at all. 
So we have a better sense of what the heck happens after a dictator topples and can take action to prevent another safe haven and another iteration of terror. 
And their son today stands on this podium in the great state of Ohio not only as the governor, but a candidate for president of the United States. 
Before you ask the question, can I respond to the you know, they mentioned my name a couple of times. 
Let me respond...Under the rules, I have been -- I have been invoked, David, so let me respond very quickly. 
I think it has to be continued threat from the spread of nuclear weapons, nuclear material that can fall into the wrong hands. 
And, you know, let's you can have the money that's left over to buy your catastrophic insurance. 
They told you that your Social Security money is in a trust fund. 
But time and time again, by innuendo, by insinuation, there is this attack that he is putting forth, which really comes down toyou know, anybody who ever took donations or speaking fees from any interest group has to be bought. 
We need to make sure that we have justices that, with a proven experienced record of respect for upholding the constitution. 
Well, I would say my wife tells me I'm wrong all the time. 
And the reason why this war against them is so important is that very basis of religious liberty. 
And I will tell you, though, with all of that being said, you can not negotiate this way with terrorists. 
And by the way, President Obama signed that, pushed it through, even though he took donations from Wall Street, because he's a responsible president. 
There is no such thing as a politically correct war. 
But I know that we offered a lot of help and I know it was difficult for the Libyans to accept help. 
And, the second point I would make is that we have to move past this idea that somehow the hispanic community only cares about immigration. 
And my father left my mother and left me when I was just three years old. 
But where we have a disagreement is that I think if you look at the history of regime changes, you go back to Mossadegh in Iran, you go back to Salvador Allende who we overthrew in Chile, you go back to overthrowing Saddam Hussein in Iraq, you go back to where we are today in Syria with a dictator named Assad. 
That's the way you do this is you improve the condition for people. 
Chris, I believe the American people are looking for someone to speak the truth. 
So, I think we are in the midst of great turmoil in this region. 
We do not have to have massive levels of income and wealth inequality. 
And I think rather than talking about this as a wedge issue, which Barack Obama has done now for six long years, the next president -- and I hope to be that president -- will fix this once and for all so that we can turn this into a driver for high sustained economic growth. 
We've got to be prepared to stop these guys if they ever try to use their economic power once again, to hurt the economy, and to hurt so many Americans. 
She has the entire establishment or almost the entire establishment behind her. 
I know how to build, believe me, I know how to build. 
On Planned Parenthood, he thinks Planned Parenthood is wonderful. 
And then for the state of South Carolina, one of the most important judgments for the men and women of South Carolina to make is who on this stage has the background, the principle, the character, the judgment and the strength of resolve to nominate and confirm principled constitutionalists to the court? 
So, you know, again, the difference between us and the Republicans is night and day. 
You know, right now they know a lot and look at what is happening. 
I balanced the budget in Washington as a chief architect, and I have balanced it in Ohio for one reason. 
They're working as hard as they ever have, everything costs more, and they haven't had a raise in decades. 
And there's one one major reason why they have not been willing to be a broader part of the coalition, and that is they have lost complete trust and confidence in this president. 
But what we're seeing happening in Libya right now is that there has been a fragile agreement to put aside the differences that exist among Libyans themselves to try to dislodge ISIS from Sirte, the home town of Gadhafi, and to begin to try to create a national government. 
Well, first of all, let me say what I actually said about raising the minimum wage. 
They also, by the way, understand what real U.S. air power looks like. 
That's in stark contrast to the Republicans who are currently running for president. 
There's one person on this stage that does have a record. 
It's very important we focus on the threats we face today, and that we understand the complicated and dangerous world we are in. 
We have a serious problem with, as you know, with radical Islam. 
Number one, we should allow people to purchase health insurance across state lines. 
Oh, well, you know, it just didn't work out for you. 
I hadn't' seen them in a while, and it was great to have them alongside me, but the most important part of it is that it once again reminded me of what's at stake. 
We need to have make sure that the world knows that we're serious, that we're engaged, that we're not going to pull back, that that our that our word matters. 
Well, Dana, the Heritage Foundation had this position as well. 
Now, they're the United States to go to other countries. 
Well, first of all, I'm 7 and 0 in my fantasy league. 
I have a feeling it's going to work out, actually. 
But I would not be for shutting the government down...because I don't think it's going to work out. 
I wake up every morning with a Democratic legislature who trying to beat my head in and fight me because I'm trying to bring conservative change to a state that needed it desperately. 
You said, "Planned Parenthood does wonderful things and we should not defund it." 
And we need to get people the treatment they need. 
Almost every hotel in Atlantic City has either been in bankruptcy or will be in bankruptcy the biggest. 
The chances of any litigation proceeding and succeeding on this are zero. 
We have the U.N. Security Council adopting a resolution that lays out a transition path. 
Just like we lock our doors at night, the country has to be able to lock its doors. 
Not all of his top national security advisors agreed with that. 
And I warned at the time this was three and a half years ago I openly and repeatedly warned that if we did not find moderate elements on the ground that we could equip and arm, that void would be filled by radical jihadists. 
Abroad, we need a coalition that is going to take on ISIS. 
Like, I'm standing here, I I watched the video of Senator Cruz. 
And I want to make sure every single person in this country has the same opportunities that he and I have had, to make the most of their God-given potential and to have the chances that they should have in America for a good education, good job training, and then good jobs. 
It starts with a commander-in-chief that sets the objective. 
With respect to North Korea and what we should do now, one of the first things we should do is expand our missile defense capacity. 
You know, later on, you know, they really realize what's going on. 
I didn't want to, but he sent me his book with his autograph...Mr. 
We have to go massively, like we did in the first Gulf War where we destroyed Saddam's ability to take Kuwait. 
Remember this, the wall will be paid for by Mexico. 
I know that he has said in the two previous that he wants to take on this immunity issue because we need to send a strong message to the gun manufacturers, to the sellers, to the gun lobby. 
You have to go in first of all, when you take away their money, when you take away their wealth, that'll very much weaken and it will happen fairly fast. 
The Children's Health Insurance Program, which I helped to create, which covers 8 million kids, is also a different kind of program. 
I just want to say, at least on behalf of me and my family, I thank God all the time it was George W. Bush in the White House on 9/11 and not Al Gore. 
We brought the budget into balance with no tax increases. 
Now, some have become more critical than others; for example, the submarines. 
And, I think it's important too that the United States make it very clear to Putin that it's not acceptable for him to be in Syria creating more chaos, bombing people on behalf of Assad, and we can't do that if we don't take more of a leadership position, which is what I'm advocating. ...
They have total, absolute control, practically, of North Korea. 
But this woman, there should be some accommodation for her conscience, just as there should be for people that are florists that don't want to participate in weddings, or bakers. 
That's the kind of place that they're going to go to, therefore, we need to be thinking about how do we prevent them from tacking over there. 
" That's where the experts tell me the next potential problem could come from. 
And it's been judged to be the toughest, most effective and comprehensive one. 
This notion that somehow we're undertaxed as a nation is just fool hearty, when we have entitlements growing far faster than our ability to pay for it. 
I don't know if that's Saturday morning or Sunday morning. 
There is an agenda there that we need to be following up on. 
Well, you have to understand, I am not sitting in the United States Senate with, by the way, the worst voting record there is today. 
Under my plan, no business, big or small, will pay more than 25 percent flat rate on their business income. 
I called to end the carried interest loophole that hedge fund managers enjoy. 
Imagine what it would be like, instead of having more businesses closed than started, we had it the exact opposite. 
She spent over a week telling the families of those victims and the American people that it was because of a video. 
We need to have strong, positive relationships in the Islamic communities in this country so they will identify and report this activity, especially mosques, for example, that are participating not just in hate speech, but inciting violence and taking acts against us. 
This election is about electing a president that will restore our economic vibrancy so that the American dream can expand to reach more people and change more lives than ever before. 
I don't think that's going to happen, and I would like the president just to, for once here, put the country first. 
His 11 Commandment was not to speak ill of another Republican. 
Not armies massively marching on each other and air forces, but now we have dirty bombs and we have cyber attacks and we have people who will be attacking our electrical grid. 
You know, it's interesting, you look at on Wall Street, the Fed is doing great. 
I've stood up for the first time and now for the last six years we've de-funded Planned Parenthood, not talked about it like they do in Washington D.C. 
What we have to do right now is bring our people together and understand that we must provide a path towards citizenship for 11 million undocumented people. 
You understand that they took over a stadium in Texas, and they used private eminent domain, but he just found that out after he made the charge. 
This administration, with President Obama and Hillary Clinton, has created insecurity the likes of which we never would've imagined. 
That turning over our White House to the Republicans would be bad for everybody especially young people. 
Why should they when the stupid leaders of the United States will do it for them? 
This is something we have to have the best defensive capabilities. 
In many ways, a college degree today is equivalent to what a high school degree was 50, 60 years ago. 
These matter, and I fought to defend the constitution my whole life...and I will as president as well. 
Let me put those proposals-- and you're absolutely right. 
Let's dispel with this fiction that Barack Obama doesn't know what he's doing. 
I think under President Obama we have seen a lot of advances, the Affordable Care Act has helped more African Americans than any other group to get insurance, to be taken care of, but we also know a lot more than we did. 
Community has to understand that that police officer wants to get home at night, and not not to lose their life. 
Radical Muslims and radical Islam is not just hate talk. 
The Palestinians are not a real estate deal, Donald. 
And I respectfully disagree with my friend over here. 
And secondly, when you talk about me being on the board of Lehman Brothers, I wasn't on the board of Lehman Brothers. 
The problem is if El Chapo builds a tunnel under the fence, we have to be able to deal with that too. 
But if that's the best the New York Times has got, they better go back to the well. 
You can't do it the politically expedient way anymore. 
That's why I've pledged on Day 1 to rip to shreds this Iranian nuclear deal, and anyone that thinks you can negotiate Khamenei does not understand the nature of Khamenei. 
This is a difference between being a governor and being in a legislature. 
The USA Freedom Act expands that so now we have cell phones, now we have Internet phones, now we have the phones that terrorists are likely to use and the focus of law enforcement is on targeting the bad guys. 
But let me just tell you, Syria, he's saying that I was in favor of Syria. 
They were they were talking about what you would do with depositors. 
The bottom line is, a deal between Israel and the Palestinians, given the current makeup of the Palestinians, is not possible. 
Every other major country on Earth, every one, including some small countries, say that when a mother has a baby, she should stay home with that baby. 
Trump Polish workers," you'll see a million dollars for hiring illegal workers on one of his projects. 
So, when somebody commits somebody commits any of these terrible crimes that we have seen, you lock them up, and you toss away the key. 
As far as Ted's record, I'm always puzzled by his attack on this issue. 
Senator, it is not about rural Senator, it was not about rural and urban. 
You know, no public policy doesn't have, in some cases, negative consequences. 
Secondly, I will rebuild the relationships and show the respect to our allies around the world. 
I know everyone else on this stage hopes to earn your support. 
And the reason they're not loving me the reason they're not excuse me. 
It is one of the blessings of the United States of America, having the greatest military on the face of the earth, is we have the ability to use that air power. 
You know, we we agree that we've got to get unaccountable money out of politics. 
Maybe a billionaire here in California can afford an increase in their utility rates, but a working family in Tampa, Florida, or anywhere across this country cannot afford it. 
And the people I have been accountable to every single day in the Senate are the 27 million Texans who I represent and I made a promise to them that I make to you today, which is, if I am elected, every single day I will do two things: tell the truth, and do what I said I would do. 
And I've heard some great ideas about how law enforcement is changing its behavior, how the recovery community is reaching out. 
If they will begin to turn their military attention away from going after the adversaries of Assad toward ISIS and put the Assad future on the political and diplomatic track, where it belongs. 
Look, I won the lottery when I was born 63 years ago, looked up, and I saw my mom. 
He voted for what we call, the Charleston Loophole. 
I believe that our Constitution protects everybody, regardless of their sexual orientation or any other aspect. 
She has devoted her life, when I was mayor of the city of Burlington, actually when I first met her, we started a youth office, which started a after-school programs for kids, started a child care center, started a youth newspaper. 
And now we're about to sign another trade deal, TPP, which is going to be a disaster for this country because they don't talk about monetary manipulation. 
How would it impact my dad when he was washing dishes? 
Two of them were among the most highly decorated they weren't allowed on a military base to have guns. 
I think that was one of the worst foreign policy blunders in the more than history of the United States. 
There is no trust that the Federal Government will enforce the law. 
And as far as the Syrians are concerned, Al-Hasakah province, perfect place. 
And we can do it again together, all of us, to strengthen this country, work together. 
is the fact that I was part of a very small group that had to advise the president about whether or not to go after Bin Laden. 
And, in fact, we know now that some of them, there is a case going on where some of them may have been human-trafficked. 
And I bet you we wish we would have had access to five years of his records so we could see who he was working with...Do I get another 30 seconds? 
And even worse, President Obama and Hillary Clinton are proposing bringing tens of thousands of Syrian refugees to this country when the head of the FBI has told Congress they cannot vet those refugees. 
Instead, we're listening to the bickering back and forth. 
And when he moved on his own people, threatening a massacre, genocide, the Europeans and the Arabs, our allies and partners, did ask for American help and we provided it. 
And so, that belief, and my consistency on this, makes me, I think, poised to be in the right place, the sweet spot for a Republican nominee. 
Make America the best place in the world to start a business or expand an existing business, tax reform and regulatory reform, bring our debt under control, fully utilize our energy resources so we can reinvigorate manufacturing, repeal and replace Obamacare, and make higher education faster and easier to access, especially vocational training. 
As I've said many times before, my parents were never rich people. 
Right now, the United States of America is the patient. 
I've been fighting for universal healthcare for many years, and we're now on the path to achieving it. 
I believe this is still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth. 
This is a lot of fun up here tonight, I have to tell you. 
And that's the foreign policy that apparently Senator Cruz appears to agree with. 
You know, what we're seeing with Donald is actually the pattern of Washington the pattern of Washington deal makers, which is they make promises, they break their words, and then when anyone calls them on it, they call you a liar. 
I think that a lot of what we have to overcome to break down the barriers that are holding people back, whether it's poison in the water of the children of Flint, or whether it's the poor miners who are being left out and left behind in coal country, or whether it is any other American today who feels somehow put down and oppressed by racism, by sexism, by discrimination against the LGBT community, against the kind of efforts that need to be made to root out all of these barriers, that's what I want to take on. 
It basically gave the gun lobby even more power to intimidate legislators, not just in Washington but across the country. 
So, I think that I am the person who can do all aspects of the job. 
The day General Soleimani flew back from Moscow to Iran was the day we believed that Russia used cyber warfare against the Joint Chiefs. 
And you know, the problem with the left is, another tax, another regulation, another mandate makes it harder for them to rise up. 
Well, I think there are some differences of opinion here, perhaps between the secretary and myself. 
We will expand it to reach more people and change more lives than ever before. 
I'm in favor of people coming into this country legally. 
I still want to get back to health care, because I think that's a worthy topic to explore. 
And let me mention, this issue is actually directly connected to what we've been talking about. 
I don't intend to do that, and I going to be out there pushing it out don't worry about me and Hillary. 
That expertise needs to spread all across the government and there needs to be much more cooperation with our private sector. 
There were also pretty large margins in Iowa and Wisconsin. 
And I will tell you something that really galls me. 
This is a president who, in the wake of Paris, in the wake of San Bernardino, will not even use the words radical Islamic terrorism, much less focus on defeating the enemy. 
I have a big company with thousands and thousands of employees. 
And so it was his statement, which is why I'm asking him to consider changing his views. 
So I'm going to keep talking about tearing down all the barriers that stand in the way of Americans fulfilling their potential, because I don't think our country can live up to its potential unless we give a chance to every single American to live up to theirs.
We're going to have a big, fat beautiful door right in the middle of the wall. 
Everybody now is being threatened by radical Islam. 
I did it when I was in Washington, as the Budget Committee chairman, negotiating actually with Democrats, that gave us surpluses, economic growth, and the same thing in Ohio. 
If the American people see us granting amnesty they will never again believe in legal immigration. 
We just have to do more of it, and we have to reach out, especially into poor communities and communities of color, to give more people their own chance to get ahead. 
We got Russia to sign on to our sanctions against Iran and other very important commitments. 
And what you'll find is that I led -- helped lead the effort as a member of the House financial committee against Alan Greenspan, against a guy named Bill Clinton, maybe you know him, maybe you don't. 
" I took on the Bush administration for the same thing. 
We've created rules and taxes on top of every aspiration of people, and the net result is we're not growing fast, income's not growing. 
We heard all of the people tell us how many great jobs would be created. 
No, it would have to go through the Congress, and I know the White House has actually been working with members of Congress. 
I can only say this, and I've said it loud and clear and I've said it for years. 
Imagine a country where people are lifted out of poverty again. 
They didn't save enough money for us to go to school. 
If you want to expand your caliphate and increase your influence, then you're going to go to a place that's strategically located. 
Marco right now supports citizenship for 12 million people here illegally. 
I would build consensus, but consensus means you have to work hard. 
I'm going to bring jobs back and I'll start bringing them back very fast. 
A deal is not a deal when you're dealing with terrorists. 
But one thing I'm also going to do, I'm going to be getting bringing a lot of people in who are Democrats, who are independents, and you're seeing that with the polls, because if you look at anywhere, look at any of the elections, every single election, it has been record-setting. 
In addition to that, once we have the power and the money and the influence with programs we shift out, that each of us have a responsibility to reach out and to rebuild our families, make them stronger, and connect our neighborhoods. 
He would not be the commander in chief we need to keep our country safe. 
Do you remember when he ran for president of the United States, and he was a candidate, and he went and said, "These Americans with traditional values, they are bitter people, and they cling to their guns and to their religion." 
But all of this has to come together when we have a positive attitude, an optimistic approach, an ability for us to set the tune as conservatives, to invite other people in to be part of that orchestra. 
One of the real risks of this launch, North Korea wants to launch a satellite, and one of the greatest risks of the satellite is they would place a nuclear device in the satellite. 
I don't know her, and this is a total mischaracterization...Good. 
And in fact, I don't believe it really addresses a lot of the biggest issues we have. 
And I have been proud to fight and stand for religious liberty, to stand against Planned Parenthood, to defend life for my entire career. 
In the past, Republican presidents always promise to nominate strict constitutionalists. 
I would say he's incompetent, but I don't want to do that because that's not nice. 
But what I want people to know is I went to Wall Street before the crash. 
Every Democrat voted for it, I got two Republicans. 
The great ones will come back, the good ones will come back. 
And then in Ohio, of course, I had to bring about big reform, again, because we were so far in the hole and now we just found out we are up over 400,000 jobs since I took over as governor. 
Just today, Iran announced they're going to pay $7,000 to each suicide bomber. 
And I want everybody in the public who is in that 68 percent, I want to tell you the truth. 
You use air power directed and you have embedded special forces to direction the air power. 
If she gets elected, she's under investigation with the FBI right now. 
Free college, a single payer system for health--and it's been estimated we're looking at 18 to $20 trillion, about a 40 percent in the federal budget. 
And when our staffers said, "whoa, what's going here?" They went to the DNC quietly. 
South Carolina South Carolinians need to know this, because the Cato Institute, which grades governors based on their spending, rank him right at the bottom. 
I did, and it wasn't expanded there, just as it wasn't expanded in South Carolina under Governor Haley. 
So does the government pay for everyone's health care? 
And if we keep electing the same people, nothing is going to change. 
So what I have said with regard to Boeing and GE and other multinationals that pay zero taxes, you know what we're going to do? 
Well, I'm surprised she says that, because California has had a paid leave program for a number of years. 
I've got a proven record fighting to defend the Second Amendment. 
But if you want someone to drive you home, I will get the job done 
That is not public purpose, that is down right wrong. 
But I will but I will tell you this, the socialist says they're going to pay for everything and give you everything for free, except they don't say they're going to raise it through taxes to 90 percent to do it. 
Number two, as far as the taxes are concerned, I'm being audited. 
What caused it was withdrawing from there and creating a vacuum which allowed this terrible situation to occur. 
And the third is rebuilding and reinvigorating NATO in the European theater, particularly in Central Europe and in Eastern Europe, where Vladimir Putin is now threatening the territory of multiple countries, already controls 20 percent of Georgia and a significant percentage of Ukraine. 
In Florida, they called me Jeb, because I earned it. 
We always had such a loving relationship in these debates and in between and the tweets. 
More than ever we need to...prove to people that illegal immigration is under control. 
I think that's the kind of situation that is actually fair to people. 
We have done it before, and with leadership, we can do it again. 
Now all of the ideas that I'm talking about, they are not radical ideas. 
So... We've laid out a national energy plan that says that we should invest in all types of energy. 
And Senator Sanders's plan really rests on making sure that governors like Scott Walker contribute $23 billion on the first day to make college free. 
They are outrageously high in what they're charging. 
In my town hall meetings, I went to a place where a woman described her neighbor, who has a better economic deal by not working than her struggling to make ends meet. 
We have seen the end of pre-existing conditions keeping people from getting insurance. 
It took it took an arm and a leg to be able to set up a 401(k). 
And it's not just a question for parents and grandparents to answer. 
They have a sophisticated network of radicalizing people here in the homeland and around the world. 
You know, I don't go around asking for governor's resignations every day. 
Anyone who wants to check my record in taking on Wall Street, in fighting against the deregulation of Wall Street when Wall Street put billions of dollars in lobbying, in campaign contributions to get the government off their backs. 
And the people who are getting hammered are small businesses, it's single moms, it's Hispanics. 
We were only one of two states that went to AAA bond rating. 
Democrats at the White House on down will win, when there is excitement and a large voter turnout, and that is what this campaign is doing. 
I just watched you repeat yourself five times five seconds ago 
This is a big issue for Texas, a huge issue for the country. 
She is a captive of the left of her party to the point now where she is she was for the trade agreement in the Pacific agreement. 
And I'm not blaming these folks well, I guess I could. 
We can't fix the problem just by ending Congress's retirement, that's worth about, "this" much. 
It doesn't mean that we can't be fair to other people. 
The major priority, right now, in terms of our foreign and military policy should be the destruction of ISIS. 
You know, I think since since Senator Standers followed up on this...
The pay equity for women, the American people want it. 
And if we're serious about being serious about high growth, then we have to recognize that small businesses right now, more of them are closing than than are than are being set up. 
If they don't treat us fairly, hey, their whole trade is tariffed. 
I'll keep I'll keep heading in that direction, believe me. 
The issue is a dramatically different issue than it was 24 months ago. 
I plead that it's very difficult when you deal with ISIS and organizations like that whose behavior is so barbaric and so vicious that it doesn't seem to have any purpose other than lust for killing and power and that's very difficult to put ourselves in the other shoe. 
Your profusion of comments about your feelings towards President Obama are a little strange given what you said about him in 2011. 
Well, first of all, if a company gets caught doing that, they should never be able to use the program again. 
We feel like despite our generosity, we're being taken advantage of. 
I'm the only one here that has done it in both places. 
I believe if the amendments I introduced were adopted, that the bill would pass. 
But I want to start by helping those people who are most at risk, the ones who, yes, are cutting their pills in half, who don't believe they can make the rent, who are worried about what comes next for them. 
I think to go beyond that, as I understand what Governor O'Malley has recommended, so that they would get the same subsidies. 
The congress has funded these programs of building more fencing and doing all this and he hasn't done it. 
Well, Bret, of course they have, and over the last six and a half years we've seen the consequences of the Obama-Clinton foreign policy. 
We have trillions of dollars outside that we can't get in. 
You know, I completely agree with Senator Sanders. 
We're going to save Social Security, and we're going to save Medicare. 
He is so weak on illegal immigration it's laughable, and everybody knows it. 
Secretary Clinton has been going around the country saying Bernie Sanders wants to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, people are going to lose their MedicAid, they're going to lose their CHIP program. 
And I've had many situations in the state of Ohio where we've had to move, whether it's storms, whether it was a horrible school shooting. 
And let me tell you who never gets talked about in these debates. 
The insurance companies are making a fortune on every single thing they do. 
Guns, in and of themselves, in my opinion, will not make Americans safer. 
Immigration, illegal immigration, all the good aspects of immigration and all the negative ones as well, I live with. 
But, look, here's what I think we ought to do like, immediately. 
Our wages are growing faster than the national average. 
But I think it's important to understand there's a significant difference that I have with Senator Sanders about how best to provide quality, affordable health care for everyone. 
This was a major achievement of President Obama, of our country. 
Chris, let's begin by being clear what this campaign is about. 
You'll have competition, you'll have so many different plans. 
The one guy that had some special interests that I know of that tried to get me to change my views on something that was generous and gave me money was Donald Trump. 
In addition to that in addition to that, we go ahead and we take the oil from them, their source of revenue. 
Under Chris Christie's governorship of New Jersey, they've been downgraded nine times in their credit rating. 
But, you know, the fact of the matter is, we have extremely well-documented proof that there's no autism associated with vaccinations. 
An executive order should be used frankly in consolidation and with consulting with the leadership in the in the Congress. 
And, I'm the only candidate standing here tonight who has said I will not raise taxes on the middle class. 
There were part-time jobs, very seasonal, 90-day jobs, 120-day jobs, and you couldn't get. 
There are ways to do it without having to shut the government down, but I'm sympathetic to the fact that we don't want this organization to get funding, and the money ought to be reprogrammed for family planning in other organizations that don't support this tactic. 
Many, many kids came into her home and received the kind of love that they desperately needed. 
But, I'm going to tell you that the most powerful sentiment in the hispanic community, as it is in every immigrant community, is the burning desire to leave your children better off than yourself and, you can only do that through free enterprise. 
I had the good sense, and I've gotten a lot of credit in the financial pages, seven years ago I left Atlantic City before it totally cratered, and I made a lot of money in Atlantic City, and I'm very proud of it. 
And the reason I said that is because the FBI director told the American people, told Congress, that he could not guarantee he could vet them and it would be safe. 
I support air strikes in Syria and what the president is trying to do. 
You know, coal miners and their families who helped turn on the lights and power our factories for generations are now wondering, has our country forgotten us? 
Up until that point, a refugee meant someone fleeing oppression, fleeing Communism like it is in my community. 
Please come and make it clear that America's best days are still ahead. 
What I have said, is that gun manufacturer's liability bill has some good provisions among other things, we've prohibited ammunition that would've killed cops who had protection on. 
Look, we have waiting lists for veterans that are that are leaving because of the sequester where we're gutting the military. 
But this election is not about our pedigree, this is an election about people that are really hurting. 
We have a world that grows increasingly dangerous, and we are eviscerating our military spending and signing deals with Iran. 
So, Wolf, look, people have accused me at times of having too big of a heart. 
Because that attack about letting people die in the streets...
I think it is fair to say, whatever the complaints that you want to make about him are, that with respect to China, one of the most challenging relationships we have, his opening up China and his ongoing relationships with the leaders of China is an incredibly useful relationship for the United States of America. 
And anybody up here is going to be much better than what's going to come on the other side. 
But, of course it doesn't do us any good to not talk with our adversaries...
I'm not going to tell people that I will raise your incomes and not your taxes, and not mean it, because I don't want to see the kind of struggle that the middle class is going through exemplified by these promises that would raise taxes and make it much more difficult for many, many Americans to get ahead and stay ahead. 
In fact, a delegation was sent to my office to see me because I was so vocal about it. 
And I believe that the best way to do that is to be aggressive, to be principled, but to have the goal of trying to improve relations. 
We took it away from the NSA, it was a bad decision by the president. 
There are a lot of things we've got to do in our country, reigning in Wall Street is certainly one of them. 
You can't carpet bomb ISIS if you don't have planes and bombs to attack them with. 
The president doesn't understand and by the way, neither does Secretary Clinton and here's my warning to everybody out in the audience tonight. 
The president of the United States is not going to sign this, and all we're gonna do is shut the government down, and then we're gonna open up open it up, and the American people are gonna shake their heads and say, "what's the story with these Republicans?
But the numbers just don't add up, from what Senator Sanders has been proposing. 
You know, the FBI director, the president's appointed FBI director has said this week that because of a lack of support from politicians like the president of the United States, that police officers are afraid to get out of their cars; that they're afraid to enforce the law. 
And I will tell you, part of the reason we have some people laughing, because you have insurance people that take care of everybody up here. 
But I think the secretary is right, and that is that the American people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn e-mails. 
First of all, I respect what Ted just said, but if you noticed, he didn't answer your question. 
And if we capture any of these ISIS killers alive, they are going to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and we're going to find out everything they know, because when I'm president, unlike Barack Obama, we will keep this country safe. 
I voted to make sure that Osama bin Laden was held accountable in Afghanistan. 
These are difficult times, but 2016 can be a turning point. 
This issue now has to be about stopping ISIS entering the United States, and when I'm president we will. 
My proposal, provide health care to all people, get private insurance out of health insurance, lower the cost of health care for middle class families by 5,000 bucks. 
You're going to make air conditioners now in Mexico. 
They say those evil rich people, if we take their money we can solve the problem. 
I believe that America has the opportunity to once again live by our values, live up to our values in the 21st century, but I think that America can only do that if Americans can succeed. 
People are waking up because it is going to be us who will determine the direction of our country. 
But I will say this: The natural next question that primary voters are asking, after we focus on illegal immigration is, okay, what are the records of the various candidates? 
We've spent $5 Lindsey Graham, who backs him, had zero on his polls. 
That is why there is massive despair all over this country. 
Well, as president, I will make this a nation that will solve problems. 
And they are looking for whatever their particular goal is. 
It's a fine job, I'm glad you ran for it, but it does not prepare you for president of the United States. 
Let me respond to...Number one, most important economic reality of today is that over the last 30 years, there has been a transfer of trillions of dollars from the middle class to the top one-tenth of one percent who are seeing a doubling of the percentage of wealth that they own. 
We can not afford to have a president of the United States that supports gun control. 
Because our strength as a nation comes in our unity. 
It better be about the issues our nation and the world is facing today, not simply the issues we once faced. 
We lost friends of ours in the Trade Center that day. 
Yes, sir...Let me tell you this, Mr. Baker, in terms of the cyber attacks, we have the capability to not only have a defensive posture, but it also to make it clear to people that if you attack us with cyber attacks, we will destroy the mechanisms that you are using to attack us. 
But there's also the continuing challenges of racism, of sexism, of discrimination against the LGBT community, of the way that we treat people as opposed to how we want to be treated. 
His calculation in the Middle East is that he has seen what this president has done, which is nothing, the president has no strategy, our allies in the region do not trust us. 
I have a proven record of success, 32 years in business, and 8 years as Governor of the state of Florida. 
When did we in the United States not send people to help our own people? 
So, I want to look at the whole problem and that's why my proposal is much more comprehensive than anything else that's been put forth. 
He understood what was so special about this country. 
And the fact is the fact when you talk about the Hezbollah Sanctions Act that you list as one of your accomplishments you just did, you weren't even there to vote for it. 
And here's the important point, we are spending far more per person on health care than the people of any other country. 
They were scared about what kind of country their children were going to live in and inherit. 
People died, and only three people have been fired. 
I'm all about making sure we actually get results for whatever we do. 
I do believe we need a political revolution where millions of people stand up and say loudly and clearly that our government belongs to all of us and not just a handful of wealthy campaign contributors. 
We actually have people on both sides of the aisle who have reached the same conclusion, that we can not keep imprisoning more people than anybody else in the world. 
Again, I think I gave them both checks to be exactly honest. 
And, I want to say something, and it may sound harsh, not to you, but to the American people. 
If she is the victim of incest this is not a woman's choice. 
Now, this takes, David, 18 months to 24 months, two years. 
Real inflation accounted for wages has declined precipitously over the years. 
Now, if all we're going to talk about is one part of our economy, and indeed one streak in our economy, we're missing the big oil companies. 
We're missing the big picture, and I have a record of trying to go at the problems that actually exist, and I will continue to do that. ...
Wolf, again, it would depend exactly what, you know, what was happening. 
First of all, it begins by having leaders that recognize that the economy we live in today is dramatically different from the one we had five years ago. 
But I have no argument with anyone making up her mind about who to support. 
I think we're fixing to lose the election to Hillary Clinton if we don't stop this. 
They're suing that now to get that bailout money put back in. 
In the Ukraine, arm the people there so they can fight for themselves. 
But tonight, I want to talk not about my e-mails, but about what the American people want from the next president of the United States. 
That's why we embraced free enterprise, and it made us the most prosperous people in the history of the world. 
Let them fight each other and pick up the remnants. 
But the good news is the next commander-in-chief is standing on this stage. 
And we don't need a weak person being president of the United State, OK? 
We got better taxes, we got, maybe, something else. 
She will not beat me there, I can promise you that. 
You cannot have a strong country without strong families. 
But I will say, we have a debate here tonight, and we will have an opportunity to explore those areas, and I'm looking very much forward to demonstrating that, in fact, the thing that is probably most important is having a brain, and to be able to figure things out and learn things very rapidly. 
It gave the country over to radical Islamic terrorism and it endangered America. 
We will see what the American people are willing to support. 
In 2013, when Barack Obama and Harry Reid joined the Washington Republicans in a massive, I stood shoulder to shoulder with Jeff Sessions helping lead the fight. 
When we put money into the hands of working people, they're going to go out and buy goods, they're going to buy services and they're going to create jobs in doing that. 
Well, I think that President Obama has been a great moral leader on these issues, and has laid out an agenda that has been obstructed by the Republicans at every turn, so 
I think the only argument is are we a sovereign country, are we not allowed to choose who comes in, when they come in and how they come in? 
As far as temperament and we all know that as far as temperament, I think I have a great temperament. 
We have a lot of women on Social Security, particularly widowed and single women who didn't make a lot of money during their careers, and they are impoverished, and they need more help from the Social Security system. 
Together, leading the world, this country will rid our planet of this barbarous organization called ISIS. I'm running for president, because as I go around this nation, I talk to a lot of people. 
Carrier is moving to Mexico, air conditioning company. 
In fact, they broke away from Al Qaida, because as horrible as Al Qaida is, ISIS thought Al Qaida was not radical enough. 
And the most important fight we're going to have is defending it against continuing Republican efforts to privatize it. 
We need to focus our energies there, not these broad, blanket, kind of statements that will make it harder for us to deal with ISIS. We need to deal with ISIS in the caliphate. 
So, in terms of a practical solution, I've laid out the most detailed plan for solving illegal immigration. 
But, I want to add something on the issue of mosques. 
But as governor of Ohio, I have an obligation to keep the 11.5 million people in Ohio safe. 
If I'm honored with the opportunity to be president, I hope that our Air Force One will fly, first and foremost, to our allies; in Israel, in South Korea, and Japan. 
It is who the American people can believe can keep them safe, can get the economy moving again, can get incomes rising, can build on the progressive accomplishments of President Obama. 
They launch rockets and terrorist attacks again Israel on an ongoing basis. 
Well, let let me let me just say let me just say this. 
I find I mean, it's just a very different, you know, historical perspective here. 
And I will do everything I can to heal the divides the divides economically, because there's too much inequality; the racial divides; the continuing discrimination against the LGBT community so that we work together and, yes, finally, fathers will be able to say to their daughters, you, too, can grow up to be president. 
Their kids are having a hard time finding any work at all. 
And obviously if I'm being audited, I'm not going to release a return. 
We have -- I don't know that there's any disagreement here...
But -- but we are going to end the absurdity, as Warren Buffet often remind us. 
And when Jim Comey gets up before Congress and says, we cannot effectively vet these people, for me as president, that's the end of the conversation. 
Their kids come out of college, they have high debt and they can't get a good job. 
I would restore the military, the sequester needs to be reversed. 
But by the same token, we face a very significant threat of home grown violent extremism. 
And they've come pretty close to that without federal government assistance. 
The way that Russia is trying to move the boundaries of the post-World War II Europe. 
So we're treating them and getting them on their feet. 
Well, first of all, I think we need somebody absolutely that we can trust, who is totally responsible; who really knows what he or she is doing. 
I said, "What can Americans and other countries do?" They said, "Support the efforts of those who are trying to provide safety for us, including the Jordanians." Of course, they had a brand new hospital, for instance, that was unstaffed because there wasn't enough money to do it. 
The big banks-- Look-- I don't know and with all due respect to the secretary, Wall Street played by the rules? 
They have got to start putting in some skin in the game and not just ask the United States to do it. 
This bill did, however, take away a valuable tool that allowed the National Security Agency and other law and other intelligence agencies to quickly and rapidly access phone records and match them up with other phone records to see who terrorists have been calling. 
But I think this is a worldwide that the entire world needs to come together to deal with this horrific refugee crisis we're seeing from Syria and Afghanistan, as well. 
We have to give great respect, far greater than we are right now, to our really fantastic police. 
I will cancel it on my first day in office, which means people who currently hold those permits will not be allowed to renew them when they expire, and new people will not be allowed to apply for them. 
And I also have a pretty good understanding about how to stop them. 
And we've opened up a very big discussion that needed to be opened up. 
I have more donations from students and teachers than I do from people associated with Wall Street. 
Because we made all of those things economically feasible. 
We have to have a temporary something, because there's something going on that's not good. 
Look, we will have to work around the world with less than ideal governments. 
Now, I have a plan that, in fact, would cut taxes, but not $11 trillion or $12 trillion that would put my children further in debt. 
Twenty-five years ago, 35 years ago, you look at the statistics, not even close. 
You know, flexibility is a good thing, but it shouldn't you shouldn't be flexible on core principles. 
We need radical changes in mental health in America so somebody who is suicidal or homicidal can get the emergency care they need. 
If you elect me president, we are going to re-embrace free enterprise so that everyone can go as far as their talent and their work will take them. 
I was on the House Financial Committee at that time. 
You know, she was one of 24 children, got married at age 13, had only a third grade education, had to raise two sons by herself, refused to be a victim. 
You know, and then the other thing we have to do is stop spending so much money. 
And we would still have governors like Scott Walker and others trying to rip out the heart of the middle class by making it impossible to organize and stand up for better wages and working conditions. 
Marco Rubio is a gifted, gifted politician, and he may have the skills to be a President of the United States, but we've tried it the old way with Barack Obama, with soaring eloquence and we got we didn't get a leader we got someone who wants to divide the country up. 
If you're fed up with Washington, if you're looking for someone to stand up to career politicians in both parties, I'm the only one on this stage who has done that over and over again, and if we stand together, we can bring America back. 
And I think we need to recognize the incredible challenges that so many parents face, particularly working moms. 
You know, some of these these engagement rules that the administration has "we're not going to bomb a tanker that's coming out of there because there might be a person in it" give me a break. 
We know to go ahead and shut off the supply routes, and send in our special ops at 2:00 a.m. and attack them everywhere they go. 
So we can make America greater than it has ever been. 
Let's talk about something that happened this week in the news. 
Here's what you're gonna see in the next few weeks: the Russians will begin to fly fly combat missions in that region, not just targeting ISIS, but in order to prop up Assad. 
And and you know, the concept of New York values is not that complicated to figure out. 
You've got to work with local communities and you've got to work with the federal government. 
This is the first time I've spoken and several people have had multiple questions so please try to pay attention to that. 
To comply with an order that says that they have to allow the FBI the opportunity to try to guess the password? 
And, it says blanket amnesty, I do not support blanket amnesty...
And I am very grateful for all my predecessors and my successors because each of them not only did what she could to support her husband and our country but often chose to work on important issues that were of particular concern. 
They said there were weapons of mass destruction, there were none. 
Republican leadership joined with every single Democrat, add $80 trillion to our debt to do nothing to fix the problems. 
And the fact is, I went back, it got done and here's...
As far as the command centers are concerned in Raqqa and to a lesser degree Mosul, cut those off. 
A president of the United States, again, has to bring people together, have a position. 
The idea that we're going to solve this fight with predator drones, killing people somehow is a is more acceptable than capturing them, securing the information. 
Because we're now starting to take a firm position. 
I'm on both the Environmental and Energy Committees. 
It's going to be used to build businesses, for jobs, and everything else. 
You also have to some strategically cutting in several places. 
But I hope you also noticed tonight that I do have the foreign policy experience, not just a few years, but a lot of years in working with some of the great, great minds in this country to develop the expertise, the confidence, the firmness, the toughness and the ability to bring people together. 
I think the Adams family has been shorted in the currency business. 
The natural follow up question is when have you ever stood up to Washington. 
And if they get their news in Spanish, I want them to hear that directly from me. 
What I said then was, "we have very unfair trade with China. 
Why is it that we are spending per capita far, far more than Canada, which is 100 miles away from my door, that guarantees health care to all people? 
I'd like to ask all the veterans listening out there tonight, who are waiting in line for healthcare, who are literally dying because the Veterans Administration doesn't work, do you think Barack Obama knows what he's doing? 
All we would have to do is be willing to provide them with some weaponry, some defensive weaponry. 
You see, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I'm an optimist Because I've seen so many things get accomplished in my lifetime. 
That means and he got 20 and 22, and he lost in South Carolina so badly that was going to be his stronghold. 
In times of delay, we could have a Diane Sykes, or you could have a Bill Pryor we have some fantastic people. 
Let's start talking about those issues tonight and stop this childish back-and-forth between the two of you. 
We're nowhere close to a balanced budget or fiscal discipline. 
It's probably two and a half trillion, but, I think it's much more than that. 
And if you tax cuts if you cut taxes for corporations, and you cut taxes for individuals, you're going to make things move, particularly the corporate tax, which is the highest, of course, in the in the world. 
I vetoed a statewide I.D. system for gun owners and I pardoned, six out-of-state folks who came through our state and were arrested for owning a gun legally in another state so they never have to face charges. 
And they don't hate us simply because we support Israel. 
We need to save this program for the good people out there who have paid into the system and need it. 
That's the record of accomplishment that should be taken to Hillary Clinton, who has no record of accomplishment. 
You know, Marco made reference earlier to the litigation against Trump University. 
And what happened there is yes, it's easy to get rid of a two-bit dictator like Saddam Hussein, but there wasn't the kind of thought as to what happens the day after you get him and what kind of political vacuum occurs. 
Not six months from now, not a year from now, on the first day in office, our president could very well confront a national security crisis. 
But when you stop the banking channels and when you stop the oil and take the oil not just bomb it, take it when you do that, it's going to dry up very quickly. 
Hillary Clinton is using a private server for where classified information go by. 
As we near the end of this year, we enter one of the most important elections in a generation. 
Chris, why don't you mention my name so I can get into this. 
It is not leadership to continue to try something that has no chance of happening. 
And if our next president is even half the president Ronald Reagan was, America is going to be greater than it has ever been. 
We need a president who is going to understand what actionable intelligence looks like and act on it. 
We need a president who stands up, number one, and says, we will defeat ISIS. 
"John Kasich, will you insult two people over here?" 
Please think of our founding fathers as you listen. 
Our generals are retiring because they don't want to be part of this, and at the same time, our enemies are increasing. 
You know, as the secretary knows, I chairedI had the privilege and the honor of chairing the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs. 
Before you get to that, though, Puerto Rico is going to have to deal with the structural problems they face. 
And yet when he won, he turned to me, trusting my judgment, my experience, to become secretary of state. 
And the way you win the presidency is to have practical plans. 
And, I will say the politics of it will be very, very different if a bunch of lawyers or bankers were crossing the Rio Grande. 
To make sure that our people have education and jobs rather than jail cells. 
It's always a solution of the left to create more Government from the Federal Government. 
This president every chance he has ever gotten has tried to undermine the Second Amendment. 
The people who are indigent, how do we take care of them now? 
But there have always been people in American politics that wanted America to be more like the rest of the world. 
And by the way, Marco is exactly right that a federal court found Donald guilty of being part of a conspiracy to hire people illegally and entered a $1 million judgment against him. 
And that's why, as president, I will look at communities that need special help and try to deliver that. 
Look, in addition to what Donald was saying is we also need to talk about the legal immigration system for permanent residents. 
He was kind of a conservative guy in many respects. 
Listen, senator, you know, when you're sitting in a subcommittee, just blowing hot air about this, you can say things like that. 
And if outside of Anbar in Iraq, there's a big energy field. 
Well, let me just follow-up on that, Anderson, because when I think about capitalism, I think about all the small businesses that were started because we have the opportunity and the freedom in our country for people to do that and to make a good living for themselves and their families. 
And, the Americans, and for that matter, the legal immigrants who are in Arizona, are seeing unemployment drop are seeing wages rise. 
They want to trigger an apocalyptic Armageddon showdown. 
And I believe we can reverse course by creating a strategy of high sustained economic growth, not the new normal of 2 percent that all the left says we just have to get used to, but a 4 percent growth strategy where we reform how we tax, fix the broken regulatory system, embrace the energy revolution in our midst, fix the immigration system so we can turn it into an economic driver, deal with the structural fiscal problems that exist because of our entitlement problems that will overwhelm and create way too much debt. 
Well, in fact, I would argue that the disastrous invasion of Iraq, something that I strongly opposed, has unraveled the region completely and led to the rise of al-Qaeda and to ISIS. 
And thanks to all the viewers who tuned in tonight. 
I believe in equal pay for equal work for women, but I also believe it's about time we had paid family leave for American families and join the rest of the world. 
You know, look, I balanced the federal budget as one of the chief architects when I was in Washington. 
And if we capture any of them alive, they are getting a one-way ticket to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and we are going to find out everything they know. 
We had eight hurricanes and four tropical storms in 16 months. 
Well, I know Ben wasn't talking about me, I'm sure he was talking about one of the other guys, not me. 
You see something that's suspicious, you call law enforcement and let law enforcement make those decisions. 
It gave us greater tools and we are seeing those tools work right now in San Bernardino. 
I would hope that, given the extraordinary capacities that the tech community has and the legitimate needs and questions from law enforcement, that there could be a Manhattan-like project, something that would bring the government and the tech communities together to see they're not adversaries, they've got to be partners. 
And about five, six years ago, Miriam died of an overdose. 
Under her leadership, we abandon the nation of Israel. 
Something had to happen, and there was the sense that we needed to seek retribution. 
The best of them will come back, but they're going to come back through a process. 
Look, the bottom line is the people of this of this country and this state want to see everybody rise, and they want to see unity, and I don't want to get into all this fighting tonight, because people are frankly sick of the negative campaigning. 
It's not something that you just go up, and on the job do it. 
They have trillions of dollars in those other countries. 
And in my view what we need to do is create millions of jobs by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure; raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour; pay equity for women workers; and our disastrous trade policies, which have cost us millions of jobs; and make every public college and university in this country tuition free. 
This was not a subject that was on anybody's mind until I brought it up at my announcement. 
We got to get to a conservation in environmental policy that goes beyond just carbon...
We elected a president that doesn't believe in the free enterprise system. 
They've gotten away with too much in this world and we need to stand up against them, not just there, but also in Eastern Europe where they threaten some of our most precious allies. 
And when we talk about Wall Street, let's talk about Wall Street. 
She believes in the systematic murder of children in the womb to preserve their body parts...
Ms. Dana, I agree that English is the unifying language of our country, and everyone should learn to speak it. 
When there are financial crisis, or a crisis with ebola, you got to go there and try to fix it. 
Well, in fact, I agree we should have won and I wished we would have, but, in fact, you did criticize him for using the term "self-deportation.
We have to solve problems in America by coming together, Republicans and Democrats, Americans first, party and ideology second in the second back seat of this country. 
Somebody who is very fond of the president, agrees with him most of the time, I disagree with his recent deportation policies. 
I've gained great respect for many and I'm going to even say I mean, in different forms for the people on the dais, in different forms. 
You would all be amazed, or maybe not, about the amount of information private companies and the government has in terms of the Web sites that you access, the products that you buy, where you are this very moment. 
Why will (ph) we put tax reform on the president's desk, so we can simplify this tax system? 
And Mr. Trump has a great capacity to use bluster and bigotry to inflame people and to make think there are easy answers to very complex questions. 
But I want to add something else, you know, because look, we have so much work to do in our country, and I think it's the greatest work that Americans will be called to do. 
I've done it I did it in Washington four years of balanced budgets. 
And here's the truth: Because you cannot separate the social, moral wellbeing of your people from their economic and other wellbeing. 
And the and the reason I can't be is that we are a country that is being beaten on every front economically, militarily. 
They stop 97 percent of the illegal immigrants through there. 
These are extraordinarily dangerous times that we live in. 
I'm running for president because I believe it is just too late for establishment politics and establishment economics. 
And I think you can see what we've done in terms of galvanizing. 
Single parents are already struggling across this country to provide for their families. 
They're worried about the future of their kids, and yet almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1 percent. 
is reform the tax code to simplify the rates, to shift power away from Washington, D.C. 
We also had attacks on two of our embassies in Tanzania, Kenya, when my husband was president. 
He had he got a bill eight years later from an operation he had, eight years it took. 
What we need to do instead is bring back booming economic growth, let small businesses are the heart of the economy. 
I think it's great standing up here with the senator and the governor talking about these issues, because you're not going to hear anything like this from any of the Republicans who are running for president. 
Of course they have those capabilities and we should make sure that we give the FBI, the NSA, our intelligence communities, all the resources they need to keep us safe. 
For those that are already in existence, the regulation of the Internet, we have to start over, but we ought to do that. 
They may not support me now, but I support them and we'll work together. 
We have abandoned and alienated our friends and allies, and our enemies are stronger. 
This is a serious challenge and if we can get it right, yes, we'll start winning votes again. 
Wait, Megyn, the court has ruled, and I said we'll accept it. 
O'MALLEY: Anderson, I actually have talked about a revolution. 
These guys are so powerful that not one of the executives on Wall Street has been charged with anything after paying, in this case of Goldman Sachs, a $5 billion fine. 
And I love New Hampshire, too, because you haven't voted, but 
She should not feel uncomfortable about her citizenship. 
Why do Americans contribute millions of dollars to charity? 
When if they had this tax cut, what they told me was that that $2,300 of money in their pocket they would go back to South Carolina and start a business. 
Only 19.8 percent of black teenagers have a job, who are looking for one. 
They don't believe in building walls and a pessimistic view of the future. 
And it was used sparingly, Congress has changed the laws and I and I think where we stand is the appropriate place. 
And that's what President George W. Bush did in 2001. 
Each one of them, you know, described their child, had a picture. 
Our second priority must be getting rid of Assad, through some political settlement, working with Iran, working with Russia. 
You have no disposable income when you are make 10, 12 bucks an hour. 
Our economy grew at double the rate of the nation. 
But yes, I am prepared to take this country into war if that is necessary. 
You know, you win a battle with the military, and when we go somewhere, we need to be mobile, and lethal. 
This president, and Hillary Clinton both do not believe the United States has a leadership role to play, and we're now paying a price, and it will have a huge impact on the economy of this country if we don't deal with this. 
They are anxious about international terrorism and the possibility of another attack on America. 
If Teddy Roosevelt, a good Republican, were alive today, you know what he'd say? "Break them up." 
Well, first of all, I don't think they do under President Obama because I think he's treated Israel horribly, all right? 
And that's not I'm not going to be bought by anybody. 
We've had many people over the years, for many, many years, saying the same thing. 
He was a conservative reformed governor for eight years before he became president, and no one should suggest he made an evolution for political purposes. 
Now, I don't often agree with Marco, and I don't often agree with Ted, but I can in this case. 
To get deregulated -- listen to this, they spent $5 billion in lobbying and campaign contributions over a 10-year period. 
You know, these plans would put us trillions and trillions of dollars in debt. 
You can't even begin that process until you prove to people not just pass a law that says you're gonna bring illegal immigration under control. 
But they should have the right of determine self-determination. 
I have worked with him time and time again on many, many issues. 
We should reimpose sanctions, they've already violated sanctions after this agreement was signed by testing medium-range missiles. 
I want to enhance the benefits for the poorest recipients of Social Security. 
We're the only ones dumb enough, stupid enough to have it. 
Donald Trump, for example I'm glad I mentioned his name again just if anybody was missing him Mr. Trump believed that in reaction to people's fears that we should ban all Muslims. 
Thousands of people killed, and the cleanup started the next day, and it was the most horrific cleanup, probably in the history of doing this, and in construction. 
Our wages are growing faster than the national average, and I've cut taxes more than any sitting governor in this state $5 billion, including no taxes on small business and killing the death tax. 
That tells you right away where he was headed on all of this. 
We need leadership, someone who has a backbone and sticks with things, rather than just talks about them as though anything matters when you're talking about amendments that don't even actually are part of a bill that ever passed. 
That's not an accurate assessment of what I said about ethanol. 
I want to release my tax returns but I can't release it while I'm under an audit. 
Well, first of all, I have an understanding of exactly what it is Russia and Putin are doing, and it's pretty straightforward. 
It is, we are not hiding things from the American people, but China everyday is conducting business in a way that hides things from their people. 
They are the best funded radical jihadist group in the history of the world, and they have shown a sophisticated understanding of the laws of other countries on how to insert fighters into places, and they are actively plotting to attack us here at home and around the world. 
But if we were to stop that tomorrow, we would still have the indifference, the negligence that we saw in Flint. 
But you don't have one Republican senator backing you; not one. 
Your proposal is to go and send the health care system to the state. 
But here's what I believe, the Democratic Party and the United States worked since Harry Truman to get the Affordable Care Act passed. 
So I was I was I was mentioned, so I can bring up something, I think, right? 
I also want to reign in the excesses of Johnson Controls that we bailed out when they were an autoparts company, and we saved the auto industry, and now they want to avoid paying taxes. 
Every morning, when I wake up, I think about what kind of problem do I need to solve for the people who actually elected me? 
" But I mean, a real wall, not a toy wall like they have right now. 
Under his definition, President Obama is not progressive because he took donations from Wall Street; Vice President Biden is not progressive because she supported Keystone; Senator Shaheen is not progressive because she supports the trade pact. 
I believe that we have got to pass comprehensive immigration reform, something that I strongly supported. 
But, what Secretary Carter is looking at is the constant pressure that Russia's putting on our European allies. 
But I will tell you this: What I am far and away greater than an entertainer is a businessman, and that's the kind of mindset this country needs to bring it back, because we owe $19 trillion right now, $19 trillion, and you need this kind of thinking to bring our country back. 
If they have been law- abiding, they pay a penalty. 
If you want to deal with the four million refugees that are leaving Syria because of the devastation there, then we 'ought to create safe zones for them to stay in the region rather than go to Europe. 
And I have to tell you, that was a very insulting statement that Ted made. 
But second of all second of all here is what the real point is, in terms of all of the issues you've raised the good questions you've raised. 
Negotiate a reasonable minimum wage, and index that so that we never have to have this conversation again in the history of America. 
I think half of the -- more than half of the people in my own state of Vermont, my guess here in New Hampshire, are gun owners. 
But, what the state of Arizona has seen is the dollars they're spending on welfare, on prisons, and education, all of those have dropped by hundreds of millions of dollars. 
It requires leadership, it's not filing an amendment and call it a success. 
And I think the focus ought to be on making sure that we leave this nomination process, as wild and woolly as it's going to be this is not being bad. 
So that means on Supreme Court...he's going to look to cut a deal, rather than fight for someone who won't cut a deal on the Constitution, but will defend it faithfully. 
You need common-sense regulations so small business can flourish, you need lower taxes both on business and individuals, and you need a fiscal plan to be able to get ourselves in a situation where people can predict a little bit about the future when it comes to the fiscal issues. 
And honestly Megyn, if you don't like it, I'm sorry. 
Well, listen, I've spent my entire life defending the Constitution before the U.S. Supreme Court. 
You've got another gentleman in Florida, who happens to be a very nice guy, but not...he's really doing some bad... 
And the reckless people are the folks in the White House right now. 
We need major, major reforms of a very broken criminal justice system. 
And here's why our commitment to that regional security is so critical, Donald, because if we walk away from them, both Japan and South Korea will become nuclear weapons powers. 
And Florida's low income kids had the greatest gains inside the country. 
Indeed, he gives a speech after the San Bernardino attack where his approach is to try to go after the constitutional rights of law-abiding citizens rather than to keep us safe. 
What I'm saying is this, I'm saying that we do it but if they don't start treating us fairly and stop devaluing and let their currency rise so that our companies can compete and we don't lose all of these millions of jobs that we're losing, I would certainly start taxing goods that come in from China. 
And he washed dishes making 50 cents an hour and paid his way through school. 
ICE tells them to release these people, 67,000 criminals released...on to our property, it's ridiculous. 
Everyday that goes by that these people, particularly the children, are not tested so we can know what steps must be taken to try to remediate the effects of the poisoning that they have been living with is a day lost in a child's life. 
Let me tell you something, when you see thousands upon thousands upon thousands of children being murdered in the womb, I can't think of anything better than that. 
I voted against it because the Southern Poverty Law Center, among other groups, said that the guest-worker programs that were embedded in this agreement were akin to slavery. 
I want everybody taken care of, but we have to take care of our people in this country. 
If we don't deal with this problem, it will bankrupt our country, or lead to massive tax increases, neither one that we want in this country. 
Truth is that far more blacks get stopped for traffic violations. 
We're going to increase four-fold, the fixed-wing and rotary-wing aircraft, so that you have technology monitoring an attempted incursion to direct the boots on the ground where they're occurring. 
I will know more about the problems of this world by the time I sit, and you look at what's going in this world right now by people that supposedly know, this world is a mess. 
And I'm saying we have to get to the bottom of it. 
Well, I know journalists have asked who you do listen to on foreign policy, and we have yet to know who that is. 
That means we have to work more closely with our great tech companies. 
I want to imagine a country where people's wages reflect their hard work, where we have healthcare for everyone, and where every child gets to live up to his or her potential. 
Secondly, I had an opportunity to bring resources back to Ohio to do what? 
If people are promising they're going to take on Washington and cronyism, you need to look to who has been doing it. 
Common sense regulations, lower taxes for both business and individuals, and, of course, a fiscal plan that balances the budget. 
Well, I agree with Rand that I very much respect Ron Paul and that I think anyone who is able to win in the Republican Party has to be able to bring together the disparate elements of the Reagan coalition. 
We've got to figure out how we come together to deal with this with our fiscal problems because when we deal with that, we create a stronger economy for everybody. 
And let me also tell you that nothing is gonna happen unless we are prepared to deal with campaign finance reform, because the fossil fuel industry is funding the Republican Party, which denies the reality of climate change and certainly is not prepared to go forward aggressively. 
Close the gun show loophole, close the online loophole and... 
But let me also tell you, one of the issues has got to be the integration of both community and police. 
So just by definition, if you're and many of the people here that are seeking advice from the foreign policy experts in the Republican side, they they served in my dad's administration, my brother's administration. 
And we have to do more to prevent the flood of foreign fighters that have gone to Syria, especially the ones with western passports, that come back. 
But in terms of the people who are here already, after we after we stop the illegal immigration, we need to be reasonable. 
Since, you know, the end of the last Clinton administration when incomes did go up for everybody. 
That's exactly what the Republican establishment says too. 
Well, the Draft's not going to be reinstituted, but why if women are accessing...
I couldn't find a single one who didn't think that we had turned our backs on Israel. 
He got endorsed by the Sun-Sentinel because he was the most talented guy in the field. 
Why don't we put tax reform on this president's desk, and make him veto it if that's what he wants to do? 
And as you noted, I have rolled out a bold and simple flat tax: 10 percent for every American that would produce booming growth and 4.9 million new jobs within a decade. 
Do the same kind of thing that we did with Sinjar a few weeks ago, working with our embedded special forces with the Kurds, shut off the supply route, soften them up, then we go in with specials ops followed by our air force to take them over. 
When somebody when eminent domain is used on somebody's property, that person gets a fortune. 
You'll create a much better graduation rate at a lower cost, and you won't in debt the next generation with recourse debt on their backs. 
We both listened to the information from Bush and Cheney. 
I was appointed United States attorney on September 10, 2001. 
The criminals are going to ignore it because they are criminals. 
That's how you turn the country around, not just hoping and praying for it, but implementing policies that work. 
He acted as if he was somehow disembodied from the bill. 
I hate them so much is because every single regulation costs in terms of goods and services. 
You know, nobody talks about it, we talk about Iran, and that's one of the worst deals ever made. 
And finally, I will say to everyone in this room, we have been talking about taxes and economics. 
That it is wrong, today, in a rigged economy, that 57 percent of all new income is going to the top 1 percent. 
I am the man who can bring us together to do that, and I ask for your vote.
But I want to talk -- I want to talk about something else, because Secretary Clinton I think made some interesting and good points. 
I heard the arguments coming from Democrats and RepublicansRobert Rubin, Alan Greenspanabout great an idea it would be if we did away with Glass-Steagall and if we allowed investor banks and commercial banks and big insurance companies to merge. 
I want to use that same up here, whatever it may be to make America rich again and to make America great again. 
And believe me, if we gave them the mission, which is what the commander-in-chief does, they would be able to carry it out. 
When I ran for Senate, I promised 27 million Texans I would fight for you every day, and not for the Washington bosses. 
Emma, and Reese, my children, and Karen, love 'ya girls. 
The Palestinian Authority has walked away from multiple efforts to make peace, very generous offers from the Israels. 
It would be one of my greatest achievements as president. 
In the 1980s, it was in Beirut, Lebanon, under President Reagan's administration, and 258 Americans, marines, embassy personnel, and others were murdered. 
If you had another financial crisis, perhaps there would be an effort to make sure that we do (ph). 
We need different solutions to solve the problems and to save our nation. 
The agreement on a cease-fire, though, is something that has to be implemented more quickly than the schedule that the Russians agreed to. 
I want to end it because it goes too far, it's killed millions of jobs, and it's hurting people's health care. 
I want to speak to all our fighting men and women. 
Listen, repealing Obamacare is not going to be easy. 
So, we have a very serious problem that we can no longer ignore. 
These are not the nice, sweet little people that you think, OK? 
Look, we need more Americans to be involved in the political process. 
It was the first time we did it since man walked on the moon. 
And I can do that, and I'm not sure that anybody else in the group will be able to do that. 
We have the lowest percentage of Americans working today in any year since 1977. 
I've gotten along with people for years and years, have tremendous relationships with many people, including politicians on both sides. 
I think that we should have a deeper debate about these issues, because there is no more important decision that a president will make. 
The Democrats' answer to everything is more government control over wages, and more empowering trial lawyers to file lawsuits. 
And I agree with much of what the secretary and the governor have said. 
And roughly 65 percent of Republicans think Donald is not the right candidate to go against Hillary Clinton. 
Newspapers who make endorsements also say positive things about other candidates, and to the best of my knowledge, that is what we did. 
I have fought my entire life to make sure that healthcare is a right for all people. 
What we did was create an environment where people had a chance to have income. 
They're United States citizens, they're obviously entitled to do so, and we welcome them, but we would also prefer to see a Puerto Rico that once again is growing economically, and is robust. 
Please join me for a moment of silence and remembrance of the San Bernardino victims. 
And second of all and I think you know, Governor Jeb, you the attack that the authorization that Barack Obama asked for was not against ISIS. 
When I left there was $9 billion of reserves, 35 percent of general revenue. 
If a soldier has a child abroad, that child is a natural-born citizen. 
Look, this is this is troubling because we're at war. 
But if you look at the Republicans versus the Democrats when it comes to economic policy, there is no comparison. 
And that's why Ronald Reagan said that it was a blindfold. 
I voted against the war in Iraq because I listened very carefully to what President Bush and Vice President Cheney had to say and I didn't believe them. 
We have to lead a coalition that will take back territory from ISIS. 
I released 34 years of tax returns and 300,000 e-mails in my government record. 
He doesn't want to get people together, the old-fashioned way, where you get Congress. 
I think we welcome them into this country and do the best we can to help them get their lives together. 
I was very honored to be asked to do that and very honored to serve with him those first four years. 
And you wanted to know the numbers, the Tax Foundation, which has scored every one of our plans, shows that this plan will allow the economy to generate 4.9 million jobs, to raise wages over 12 percent, and to generate 14 percent growth. 
Well, the answer is, obviously, if you see suspicious activity, you report it. 
If you do that and apply conservative principles the right way, you create an environment where everybody rises up. 
A majority of the candidates on this stage have supported amnesty. 
But if we're going to win in 2016, we need a consistent conservative, someone who has been a fiscal conservative, a social conservative, a national security conservative. 
And, look, you've got Rand Paul, you've got Ted Cruz, you've got Marco, you've got a lot of people on this stage that have studied these issues. 
Well, I believe, and I know that if Iowa helps make me the Republican nominee, I will defeat Hillary Clinton. 
Look, I have the greatest respect for Senator Sanders and for his supports and I'm going to keep working as hard as I can to reach as many people of all ages about what I will do, what the experience and the ideas that I have that I will bring to the White House and I hope to have their support when I'm the Democratic nominee. 
It is a reminder that every country in the world has rich people. 
And the fact is that what we need to do what we need to have in this country is not to make the same mistake we made eight years ago. 
It was my grandfather; he came to this country in the 1960s, as a escaping Cuba. 
And then here at home, there are things called the Joint Terrorism Task Force, headed by the FBI, and made up of local law enforcement, including state police. 
Well, he appointed Eric Holder as attorney general. 
Libya didn't go down because there was some people revolution. 
I am the only person on this dais the only person that fought very, very hard against us (ph), and I wasn't a sitting politician going into Iraq, because I said going into Iraq that was in 2003, you can check it out, check out I'll give you 25 different stories. 
I will do everything I can as president to get that accomplished. 
We spend almost twice as much per capita on healthcare as many other nations who have actually much better access than we do. 
I'm hoping that because of the very recent announcement of the agreement at the Security Council, which embodies actually an agreement that I negotiated back in Geneva in June of 2012, we're going to get a diplomatic effort in Syria to begin to try to make a transition. 
Well, the numbers the Tax Foundation had put out is that the static cost of the plan is $3.6 trillion over 10 years, but the dynamic cost of the plan, which which is the cost that factors in growth, is about $768 billion. 
And when I see they have a climate conference over in Paris, they should have been talking about destroying ISIS because they are involved in virtually every country, you know, across this world. 
When we stand firm and we let the world know who we're with, who we stand for, and we bring our allies together, that is the road forward. 
That woman should not have to deliver that child if they believe that violation is now an act of self-defense by terminating that pregnancy. 
And now in Ohio, with the same formula, wages higher than the than the national average. 
There's the establishment lane, the anti-establishment lane, and then there's the Kasich lane. 
You know, I have said I have said many times, you know, I'm not asking people to support me because I'm a woman. 
Our vets may see the V.A. hospital that needs to be improved and made better for them turned over to privatization. 
We can slap on sanctions alone, on day one, but it's not gonna be anywhere near as effective. 
I'm going to do the right thing for the American public. 
It belongs to states, local communities and the private sector. 
The most important job I'm ever going to have, the most important job anyone in this room will ever have, is the job of being a parent. 
They should be able to walk in the door tomorrow and get a variety of treatments that work for them. 
What makes America special is that we have millions and millions of people that are not rich, that through hard work and perseverance are able to be successful. 
A strong leader is what we need in the White House, and she certainly was a strong leader that restored the United Kingdom into greatness. 
Well, let let me just say let me just say, first of all, I have great respect for Justice Scalia. 
Thirdly, we need to slap even tougher sanctions on North Korea because we really don't have the toughest sanctions on North Korea. 
And, of course, his dissent on Obergefell as well. 
On the regulatory side I think we need to repeal every rule that Barack Obama has in terms of work in progress, every one of them. 
I'm prepared to do that work, but I believe, just as I did with imposing the sanctions, you have to get action for action. 
They want everyone in this country to follow their religious beliefs the way they do. 
Thank you all very much for listening and being patient with all of us tonight. 
Well, Secretary Clinton was right and what I did which I think is also right, is demanded the resignation of governor. 
We would grow our economy, and the government would get the revenue necessary to make things make things better. 
I think there needs to be accommodation for someone acting on faith. 
I watched that town hall meeting with the Democrats the other night, and I heard Hillary Clinton asked a direct question by an Iowan, and that's what Iowans like to do. 
We are I'm all for protecting Ukraine and working but, we have countries that are surrounding the Ukraine that aren't doing anything. 
So, we are seeing the dark side of the remaining systemic racism that we have to root out in our society. 
Without it, you wouldn't have roads, you wouldn't have hospitals, you wouldn't have anything. 
It's the king of Jordan that they want to dethrone. 
The other Arab countries have a role to play in this. 
And I've got to tell you that it is it is really quite amusing to me. 
You can take all of the rich's money and it won't make a dent in the problem that we're having. 
It is a referendum on our identity as a nation and as a people. 
We should be putting together a coalition of Arab countries who should be leading the effort. 
Next, we have to talk to our adversaries, and we have to make sure they understand the limits of our patience. 
Justice Scalia was someone I knew personally for 20 years; was privileged to be at his funeral this weekend. 
I think we are backing people we have no idea who they are. 
But, just willy-nilly going out and quarantining a bunch of people because they've been to Brazil, I don't believe that that's going to work. 
We're not embracing the energy revolution in our midst, a broken immigration system that has been politicized rather than turning it into an economic driver. 
Carl, are we really talking about getting government involved in fantasy football? 
I've done it in Ohio, we're growing, the jobs are up and people are having opportunity. 
But I want to quickly say, one of the areas that Senator Sanders touched on in talking about education and certainly talking about health care is his commitment to really changing the systems. 
To honor the people that died, we need to -- we need to --- stop the -- Iran agreement, for sure, because the Iranian mullahs have their blood on their hands, and we need to take out ISIS with every tool at our disposal. 
Well, I think these people always hit me with eminent domain, and frankly, I'm not in love with eminent domain. 
And I think people in Florida would be surprised, because, in fact, the article that was today, they interviewed a number of people that would have been willing to do those jobs, if you would have been willing to hire them to do it. 
That our campaign is a campaign of the people, by the people, and for the people. 
I don't think we need an agitator-in-chief or a divider-in-chief. 
Do I consider myself part of the casino capitalist process by which so few have so much and so many have so little by which Wall Street's greed and recklessness wrecked this economy? 
And on this issue of the Medicare in particular, it's important because they're going to demagogue what we're saying here tonight. 
We cannot fix things in this country the Social Security, the border, balancing the budget, getting wages to grow faster unless we lead as conservatives, but we also invite people in from the other party. 
We just heard an argument back and forth that we can't solve immigration. 
We have to do the best possible job of sharing intelligence and information. 
I'll negotiate a lot more money than you'll ever get. 
I'm Jeb Bush, and I believe America's on the verge of its greatest century, and I'm ready to lead. 
For example, it's one of the reasons why he had betrayed Israel, because he believes that if we create separation from Israel, it will help our relations in the Islamic world. 
The Affordable Care Act has clearly, as Secretary Clinton made the point, done a lot of good things, but, what it has not done is dealt with the fact we have 29 million people today who have zero health insurance, we have even more who are underinsured with large deductibles and copayments and prescription drug prices are off the wall. 
We're not going to be the world's policeman, but we sure as heck better be the world's leader. 
Well, first of all, I didn't say that the rate would be 10 percent. 
They have to come back into through a legal process. 
And occasion, in order to sort of really highlight something, I'll use a profanity. 
And I think that's the false choice that's the that's the false choice in this whole debate about immigration. 
I want to tell you a story about someone that didn't speak English that well. 
People can come into the country, we welcome people to come but they have to come in legally. 
Or a young woman who had been performing at President Obama's second inauguration coming home, absolutely stellar young woman, hanging out with her friends in a park getting shot by a gang member. 
I don't think any -- I don't think any sensible person would disagree that the invasion of Iraq led to the massive level of instability we are seeing right now. 
someone who makes more money...numerically, it's gonna be higher. 
Now, I'm the only person that's put out a detailed plan on how to deal with entitlements. 
I know politicians I know politicians, believe it or not, better than you do. 
And its bankruptcy and its failure nearly destroyed us. 
But I think the American people deserve to know specifically how this would work. 
And the good news is, for the Republican Party, the Democrats are getting very poor numbers in terms of bringing them in. 
I took a $20,000 loan on a credit card to put my nephew, Joey, in Valley Forge Military Academy he was in sixth grade at the time, to pay his way through that. 
With all of these countries, and all of the bad ones getting advantage and taking advantage of what the good ones would normally get, I'd rather make individual deals with individual countries. 
So I'm confident if I win this nomination, I will aggressively go against her and beat her. 
If you do this, we will rebuild this country, and together we will usher in a new American century the greatest era in the history of this great land.
So eminent domain it's not that I love it, but eminent domain is absolutely it's a necessity for a country. 
And second of all, when we talk about addiction being a disease, the Secretary is right, what that means is we need a revolution in this country in terms of mental health treatment. 
You know, we have hired a whole lot of people in a rapid way and I am familiar with the first two instances and they are unacceptable, and we have apologized and dealt with that. 
You will have welcomed Heidi and our girls, Caroline and Catherine, into your homes. 
There was a minimum wage at the state level, and some places went higher. 
We've had the largest amount of tax cuts of any sitting governor. 
We have things that we have never seen before as a group, we have never seen before, what's happening right now. 
That's why it has to be repealed, for a lot of reasons, Number one, it doesn't work, number two, premium. 
What I believe has got to happen is there must be an international coalition, including Russia, a well-coordinated effort. 
Young people for whom getting involved in politics is as, you know, it's like going to the moon. 
We haven't closed the border because special interests, I believe, blocked it. 
I was invoked in that question, so let me just say in that answer let me say, the real question here, I hate to interrupt this episode of Court TV. 
But at what point you know, either you're going to have a police force that can do its job...
It means that we take marijuana out of the federal law as a crime and give states the freedom to go forward with legalizing marijuana. 
He knew it was founded on universal principles that were powerful, the dignity of all people, human rights, the rights of all to live in freedom and liberty, and choose their own path in life. 
So under my compact, the federal government will match money that the states begin to put back in to the higher education system. 
I have a slightly different approach, though, about what we should do with that initially. 
I will veto any budget that doesn't fund Planned Parenthood, and Republicans surrender. 
" Let me tell you something falsely accusing someone of lying is itself a lie...and it's something Donald does daily. 
And then we need to shut down we need to shut down their mechanisms of funding and attack their command-and-control centers. 
" There was nobody to talk to and it really did give me an insight into the very difficult problems presidents face. 
So...no, that's not what...that I think Dodd-Frank was a very...good start, and I think that we have to implement it. 
And thirdly, we have got to de-militarize our police departments so they don't look like occupying armies. 
Hillary and the Democrats promise everything on the spending side. 
Without American leadership every other country in the neighborhood beings to change their priorities. 
As president, I will keep you and our country safe, secure, and free. 
Frankly, that will make people think because they may not care much about their lives, but they do care, believe it or not, about their families' lives. 
You let people know that once it's done, you don't have a right to come in. 
If you look at history, John, you will find that regime change -- whether it was in the early '50s in Iran, whether it was toppling Salvador Allende in Chile, whether it is overthrowing the government of Guatemala way back when -- these invasions, these toppling of governments, regime changes have unintended consequences. 
So I must say, Gerard, I just think it's a terrible deal. 
It primary is built on the basis of whether you have a relative living here instead of merit. 
The fact is though that for 15,000 people a day to be deported every day for two years is an undertaking that almost none of us could accomplish given the current levels of funding, and the current number of law enforcement officers. 
All that together wealth, connection, family America's greatest days are ahead. 
But until then, none of that is going to be possible. 
And the second reason is because the individuals who register as guest workers, they don't get to vote, they are not American citizens, and they don't get the rights and privileges of American citizens. 
Next thing that we do, real unemployment -- official unemployment, 5 percent, real employment 10 percent, youth unemployment, off the charts. 
It is because in this nation, we are influenced by Judeo-Christian values that teach us to care for the less fortunate, to reach out to the needy, to love our neighbor. 
O'MALLEY: I have to talk about something that's actually working in our state. 
If they want to become an American citizen, they go through exactly the same process that anybody else goes through. 
What I said is yes, Apple should be forced to comply with this court order. 
And we should show a little more respect for the fact that they're struggling. 
And they're going to tell us where the terrorists are. 
I watched that fraudulent document, and I said it's the worst thing I've ever seen in politics. 
And it is very clear to me that public policy has not caught up with the explosion of technology. 
And I think it serves no purpose to say that you have a good guy and a bad guy. 
How about your millionaire and billionaire friends paying for the bailout, not working families in this country?" So to answer your question, no, I would not have let the economy collapse. 
Here's what you didn't hear in that answer, and this is important guys, this is an important thing. 
Look, I think that the president's decision to go after the chemical weapons once there was a potential opportunity to build on when the Russians opened that door resulted in a very positive outcome. 
But if we start taking care of our veterans the right way, we won't have to ever worry about a draft again. 
But, you know, we are blessed with tremendous energy in this nation, and we need to be talking for new sources of energy. 
But what we have to remember is even though everybody has the same rights, nobody get extra rights. 
It means it means more demands on government growing the economy is the first job, if we're going to be serious about dealing with the deficit and debt. 
And so, if it were necessary to, say, prevent a city from facing an imminent terrorist attack, you can rest assured that as commander in chief, I would use whatever enhanced interrogation methods we could to keep this country safe. 
The big corporations have the scale to deal with all of this. 
The truth is it is relatively easy for a powerful nation like America to overthrow a dictator but it is very hard to predict the unintended consequences and the turmoil and the instability that follows after you overthrow that dictator. 
You know, it's interesting Donald went went on on an extended tirade about the polls, but he didn't respond to any of the substance. 
And when you do that, you will be amazed at how much progress you can make, and how much healing we can have. Because, folks, at the end of the day, the country needs healed. 
That's what we stand for, not socialism like Bernie Sanders, and increasingly Hillary Clinton. 
So our job is to provide them the military equipment that they need; the air support they need; special forces when appropriate. 
I'm a businessman, did really well, really well, and Jeb, what I want to do is put that ability into this country to make our country rich again. 
So it's easy to say, well, I'm going to do this and do that, but I have doubts when people receive huge amounts of money from Wall Street. 
These are often very long- term kinds of investments that have to be made. 
That's the way to get women's wages up, and that's good for them and good for their families and good for our communities. 
And we have to be mature enough to recognize that our children will have no future if we put our heads in the sand. 
Our staff found information on our computers from the Clinton campaign. 
I will get along I think with Putin, and I will get along with others, and we will have a much more stable stable world. 
I have much more confidence in the federal system, and I do reserve it for particularly heinous crimes in the federal system, like terrorism. 
What I do say is, there will be a certain number of people that will be on the street dying and as a Republican, I don't want that to happen. 
The policies that we've suffered under other presidents have been a disaster for our country. 
It means, come out from the shadows, pay a fine, earn legal status by working, by paying taxes, learning English. 
Now, the truth is, that Frank Delano Roosevelt, Harry Truman, do you know what they believed in? 
China is one of the few major countries in the world that has significant support for North Korea, and I think we got to do everything we can to put pressure on China. 
Someone who cannot handle intelligence information appropriately cannot be commander in chief and someone who lies to the families of those four victims in Benghazi can never be president of the United States. 
It would create an explosion of investment back into this country, creating higher-wage jobs, and so that's part of it. 
They should have health empowerment accounts that are subsidized so they can go to any medical facility and be taken care of. 
You wanted it and you didn't get it because I was opposed to casino gambling before during and after. 
First statement is, we tell the billionaire class, "they cannot have it all." 
They don't know how they're going to make that payment every month, and if they can't make it, they can't work, because someone needs to watch their kids during the day. 
Well, I'm surprised Senator Cruz would say that since he was as strong supporter of John Roberts at the time. 
O'MALLEY: Senator, I'm the only person on this stage that's actually balanced a budget every year for 15 years. 
We have a corrupt campaign finance system dominated by Super PACs. 
I'm deadly serious about doing this job the right way. 
Did it have anything to do with the fact that Wall Street providedspent billions of dollars on lobbying and campaign contributions? 
That's the way it should be, and I'm going to continue to reach out to thank all my online contributors for everything they are doing for me, to encourage them and help me do more just as Senator Sanders is. 
And, the reason is, as you know, you look at the value sin the hispanic community. 
Why does the pharmaceutical industry make huge campaign contributions? 
Well, because I'm influencing social policy this is their money. 
And as a commander in chief, who do you know will stand up to our enemies as the clam, steady, deliberate, strength to defeat our enemies, to secure our borders and to keep America safe.
When this transpired, I apologized to him then and I do so now. 
I think that is an assessment the voters are going to make. 
So I would like to talk about it at some point, because that's what leadership is. 
The fact is, since then, many killings ,murders, crime, drugs pouring across the border, are money going out and the drugs coming in. 
You know what the Obama administration keeps getting wrong is whenever anything bad happens they focus on law-abiding citizens instead of focusing on the bad guys. 
When our country is threatened, or when our allies are threatened, I believe that we need coalitions to come together to address the major crises of this country. 
And I spent my entire lifetime balancing federal budgets, growing jobs, the same in Ohio. 
And really, it says more about a person than how much they talk. 
In fact, we just made one three-four weeks ago against a person who was favorable to ISIS living in Akron. 
It sounds more and more what my daughter said that I said in the beginning, all the fighting and arguing is not advancing us. 
Because maybe you can't only find a little sliver of common ground to cooperate with somebody from the other party, but who knows. 
And I'm very proud and grateful to have the support of so many elected Vermonters and former officials. 
I give you my word, every justice I nominate will vigorously defend the Bill of Rights for my children and for yours. 
Women should not be making 79 cents on the dollar compared to that. 
And quite frankly, people don't trust this president as commander-in-chief because of that. 
I understand your question was about a preemptive strike, but my point is that there is in place now contingencies to avoid any sort of that strike from going errant and destroying any any assets of the United States, or implicating or hurting any of our allies or any of our assets in the region. 
We're on the verge of being the first generation of Americans that leave our children worse off than ourselves. 
And it is not only shameful, it is dangerous for the kinds of comments you're hearing from the Republican side. 
And the bottom line is this, we are not going to be able to do anything on this issue until we first bring illegal immigration under control. 
Well, we need to focus on what the objective is, you know? 
On the other hand, where you have manufacturers and where you have gun shops knowingly giving guns to criminals or aiding and abetting that, of course we should take action. 
I'm prepared and ready to take it on and I hope to earn your support to be the nominee of the Democratic Party and the next president of the United States. 
And you talk so much that nobody can ever keep up with what you're saying is accurate or not. 
And once again, back in 2002, when we both looked at the same evidence about the wisdom of the war in Iraq, one of us voted the right way and one of us didn't. 
If we want to go everywhere alone, we will not have the strength as (ph) if we could rebuild with our allies. 
Unfortunately, much of that budget continues to fight the old Cold War with the Soviet Union. 
And I believe only with a strong America will we defeat this radical group, this apocalyptic group called ISIS. 
I've got to tell you, when wages don't rise and they haven't for a lot of families for a number of years it's very, very difficult for them. 
They want to trigger a showdown in a city named Tibet between the west and themselves which they believe will trigger the arrival of their messianic figure. 
Our staffer at that point did exactly the right thing. 
What we need to do is destroy ISIS. I laid out a plan at the Citadel to do just that and it starts with creating a "No Fly Zone" and "Safe Zones" to make sure refugees are there. 
Here, my dad fled Cuba and washed dishes, making 50 cents an hour to pay his way through the University of Texas. 
And as part of his training, he jumped out of an airplane and he lost his two front teeth. 
If you stack that up it would be a three-story building. 
ISIS and Iran have declared war on America, and we need a commander in chief who will do everything necessary to keep our children safe. 
You can't have a strong nation without strong values, and no one is born with strong values. 
I will go anywhere, to meet with anyone, at any time to find common ground. 
In terms of 2007 immigration reform, yeah, I did vote against it. 
That's the way we raised our daughters and that's what we should aspire to as president for all of the women in our country. 
Well, as you know, at that same CNN forum, both Marco and I were asked this question. 
You know, I think most people know exactly what New York values are. 
See seeing your Planned Parenthood officials callously, heartlessly bartering and selling the body parts of human beings, and then ask yourself, "are these my values?" These are horrifying. 
MIlitary action, Maria, would be used when it was absolutely necessary to protect American lives and protect American interests around the world. 
The second avenue of change is foreign policy, and foreign policy can change the fastest. 
But on the assumption they do protect her, I will win the election and we will win it by a lot. 
They're attacking the troops that we're supporting. 
What I can tell you is all nine of the people here would make an infinitely better commander in chief than Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton. 
ISIS is the most dangerous jihadist group in the history of mankind. 
It's actually evidence of the bias that exists in the American media today. 
And then when we win that, and we will win that against ISIS as it settles down, and we should leave. 
Now, the fact is, what this president has done is invited Russia to play an even bigger role, bring in Vladimir Putin to negotiate getting those chemical weapons back from Assad, yet what do we have today? 
But I will certainly turn to him as prior presidents have for special missions, for advice, and in particular, how we're going to get the economy working again for everybody, which he knows a little bit about. 
The reality is that there has been trillions of dollars of wealth going from the middle class in the last 30 years to the top 1/10th of 1 percent. 
Yes, of course, the economy has not been working for most Americans. 
The reality is we that have a corrupt campaign finance system which separates the American people's needs and desires from what Congress is doing. 
It's abundantly clear that he didn't fight for the legislation. 
It's a very routine audit, and it's very unfair, because I've been audited for, I think, over 12 years. 
For example, it is outrageous that we don't have an opportunity for Medicare to negotiate for lower prices. 
You can interrupt everybody else on this stage, you're not going to interrupt me, OK? 
Last week, Secretary Carter announced that the Navy's going to be cut again. 
Millions of Americans are working longer hours for lower wages, and yet almost all of the new income and wealth being created is going to the top one percent. 
But what I'm concerned about is the views of many Democrats who know their states, who know how hard it is to win a general election. 
It's the same answer the State Department gave that we need to give them jobs. 
You have to make all those connections so that you've got people with you every step of the way. 
The nice part of the plan you'll have many different plans. 
The second largest school district in America in Los Angeles closed based on a threat. 
I agree 100 percent, by the way, with Carly on the fact that the Democrats do not want to solve this problem, for the obvious reasons, but they do not. 
So getting those chemical weapons out was a big deal, but...
I mean, the lack of judgment and the lack of understanding about how the world works is really dangerous in this kind of time that we're saying. 
And lastly, we should make sure that he knows that if he ever shoots a missile at us, it will be the last thing he ever does. 
But we can not do this if we are going to compete with the rest of the world. 
When you have three out of the four largest financial institutions in this country bigger today than they were when we bailed them out because they were too big to fail, when you have six financial institutions having assets equivalent to 58 percent of the GDP of America, while issuing two-thirds of the credit cards and a third of the mortgages, look, I think if Teddy Roosevelt were alive today, that great trust-buster would have said break them up. 
We need to get a consensus through this campaign, which is why I'm talking about it everywhere I go, and we need to join the rest of the advanced world in having it. 
Way, way too many, and they don't have anything else to do. 
But I will say this, and people are very, very impressed with what I've done, the business people. 
But, we need to start thinking about the divisiveness that is going on in our country. 
And my argument then was proven true, and that is, the longer that civil war took, the more militias would be formed and the more unstable the country would be after the fact. 
They just started that a few months ago. ...called me a genius, I like him so far, I have to tell you. 
And it has failed because the American people have zero trust that the federal government will enforce our laws. 
A flat tax for everybody no exemptions, no deductions, no shelters, because some people have a better capability of taking advantage of those than others. 
It was pretty straightforward to me that he was going to give immunity to the only industry in America. 
First of all, we have seen now in six years of Obamacare that it has been a disaster. 
Well, Chris, I will apologize to nobody for the vigorousness with which I will fight terrorism, go after ISIS, hunt them down wherever they are, and utterly and completely destroy ISIS. You know, you claim it is tough talk to discuss carpet bombing. 
I take responsibility for my record in New Jersey. 
But Maria, radical Islamic terrorism was not invented 24 months ago; 24 months ago, we had Al Qaida. 
Everybody else has to be accountable, but not the gun manufacturers. 
And it's about sending power, money and influence back to where we live so we can run America from the bottom up. 
This is one of the areas I've disagreed with Senator Sanders on, who has called for Iranian troops trying to end civil war in Syria, which I think would be a grave mistake. 
And that's why as president, I'll take this very seriously. 
Here is the story -- it's not just the college graduates should be $50,000 or $100,000 in debt. 
I am against American combat troops being in Syria and Iraq. 
I pay for it through a tax on Wall Street speculation. 
My older sister, Myriam, who was my half- sister, struggled her whole life with drug and alcohol addiction. 
Here's what this election better be about: This election better be about the future, not the past. 
And the next president of the United States has to be someone that you can trust and believe in to appoint someone just as good as Scalia plus there may be at least two other vacancies. 
I'm going to have a tax plan that is pro-family, because the family is the most important institution in society. 
It has to be with our friends in the Arab world and our friends in Europe, the coalition that we had when we went to the first Gulf War. 
And I want everybody here to know, when I was Budget Committee chairman in Washington, I stepped on every toe in that town, and we got to a balanced budget, and we had enormous job growth. 
I pay for my program, by the way, through a tax on Wall Street speculation, which will not only make public colleges and universities tuition-free, it will substantially lower interest rates on college debt, a major crisis in this country. ...in order to make it possible for them to afford their education. 
And I have the feeling you're going to find a lot of cost overruns there and a lot of waste and duplicative activities. 
But John Kerry, who is I think doing a very good job, has tried to at least get these people in the room together because both of them are being threatened by ISIS. 
First of all, let me just say that, in the state of Ohio and I'm the only acting executive on on this stage today we do have a moderate increase in the minimum wage. 
And they actually did a very good job, but I've won most of the lawsuits. 
And so, yes, I have a doubt about whether Donald Trump, if he becomes president, will replace Justice Scalia with someone just like Justice Scalia. 
That will tell you a lot more than an interview will tell you. 
The next president is going to be confronted with an unforeseen challenge. 
Because Tuesday night, I watched story time with Barack Obama. 
But because Ted stood up and helped lead the effort, millions rose up to kill it. 
I understand the lines around the state, whatever that means. 
We need a new commander in chief that will stand up to our enemies, and that will have credibility... 
But I think if we're ever going to really tackle the problems posed by jihadi extreme terrorism, we need to understand it and realize that it has antecedents to what happened in Iraq and we have to continue to be vigilant about it. 
It is amazing to me, and I think we'll have agreement on this up here, that we have a major party, called the Republican Party that is so owned by the fossil fuel industry and their campaign contributions that they don't even have the courage, the decency to listen to the scientists. 
If we are a free country, we have the right to be free. 
I also believe in affordable college, but I don't believe in free college, because every expert that I have talked to says, look, how will you ever control the costs. 
First of all, look, we have to make it clear to Russia what we expect. 
And you say -- I said, you see, when I take someone to the operating room, I'm actually operating on the thing that makes them who they are. 
That may not be a majority position in my party, but that's down the road. 
Because of all the federal mandates and federal laws, it was too expensive. 
The simple fact is the next president needs to appoint someone with a proven conservative record, similar to Justice Scalia, that is a lover of liberty, that believes in limited government, that consistently applied that kind of philosophy, that didn't try to legislator from the bench, that was respectful of the Constitution. 
Again, I'm telling you that we are going to we have a proposal, a plan that we're enacting now that says if you are a hospital or a doctor and you're providing very high quality at lower prices, below the midpoint some charge high, some charge low. 
I took on very powerful interests, forged consensus, fought for my beliefs, implemented them and the state was better off. 
And, I will say for those of us who believe people 'ought to come to this country legally, and we should enforce the law, we're tired of being told it's anti-immigrant. 
Everything she's put her hand to, or has touched and when we talk about the cronyism of Washington, Hillary Clinton embodies the cronyism of Washington. 
And every parent is wondering, how do we keep our kids safe? 
If we don't do that, we're stuck with the "new normal" of 2 percent growth. 
That's the fact, but, we still have a very long way to go. 
I will tell you this, I'm a former federal prosecutor, I've fought terrorists and won and when we get back in the White House we will fight terrorists and win again and America will be safe. 
Rand, you know this because you're campaigning in New Hampshire like all of us, and you see the epidemic of heroin, the overdoses of heroin that's taking place. 
But the main thing we should be focused on is the strategy to destroy ISIS. 
So I believe that, in fact, this country needs to move towards a living wage. 
We're running for the president of the United States. 
I will say, it is fairly remarkable to see Donald defending Ben after he called, "pathological," and compared him to a child molester. 
We keep winning elections, and then we don't get the outcome we want. 
And the working poor, they're now getting health care. 
President Obama has talked about fundamentally transforming this country. 
And we need to hear the voices of those men and women and boys and girls who feel like strangers in their own country and do whatever is necessary to not only deal with the immediate problems within the criminal justice system, but more opportunities, more jobs, better education so that we can begin to rebuild that very valuable asset known as trust. 
Because I know from my own experience that you've got to be ready on day one. 
And the reasons why I've done is I don't believe we have a good process of being able to vet them. 
They've actually formed an organization to try to begin to convince Americans we should no longer have guaranteed health care, specialized care for our veterans. 
You had only 21 Republican governors in this country. 
Because I don't think the American people are all that interested in this. 
He's a left-wing judicial activist, Harvard Law professor who was Al Gore's lawyer in Bush versus Gore. 
And, if they can, you know, specify exactly how that's going to be done, and what the cost, and it sounds reasonable, then I think it's worth discussing...
There were already seven committee reports about what to do. 
As far as my return, I want to file it, except for many years, I've been audited every year. 
We can enforce the laws and if we secure the border, that solves the problem. 
It is a failed idea and a failed policy, it's class warfare. 
North Korean should be back on that list of terrorist nations, as an example. 
And I will begin the process of moving the American embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. 
How do you explain this very strong stance to the hundreds of thousands of Puerto Ricans that vote across the U.S. , and particularly in your state of Florida? 
On the business side, I've got a business flat tax of 16 percent again, that applies across the board. 
You know, we wouldn't be a free country if it wasn't for them, and we have 22 veterans per day committing suicide. 
Now, with regard to ISIS, we need a commander in chief that sets the objective we will utterly defeat them because they have declared war. 
But the best way to close this gap is to modernize higher education so Americans have the skills for those jobs. 
Listen, I was born into a middle class family in New Jersey. 
It strengthened the tools of national security and law enforcement to go after terrorists. 
Forbes said it is the best, the most pro-growth tax plan, and it's based on real fairness for everybody. 
I am personally open after all that has happened and after ten years in that probationary status where all they have is a permit, I personally am open to allowing people to apply for a green card. 
And what we have right now is we have Washington as government gets bigger and bigger, you know, the biggest lie in all of Washington and in all of politics is that Republicans are the party of the rich. 
You're not going to hear a lot of polished political speech from me, but you will hear the truth. 
It's not a war on a faith; it's a war on a political and theocratic ideology that seeks to murder us. 
And then, we have to go after them on a lot of their other bad behavior in the region which is causing enormous problems in Syria, Yemen, Iraq and elsewhere. 
And as president of the United States, it's all about communication, folks. 
Yeah, David, look, for crying out loud, our country has been attacked, we have pressing issues involving how we're going to adapt to this changing era of warfare. 
Those are the hugs I remember, and those had nothing to do -- and those had nothing to do with politics, unlike what you're doing by cutting speeches on the floor of the Senate, then putting them on the Internet within half an hour to raise money for your campaign...and while still putting our country at risk. 
And third, I would be working, in every way that I knew, to bring our country together. 
So, I'm not going to use this opportunity to savage the reputation of Senator Cruz. 
In terms of where we are right now, as you mention, Rachel, in a number of national and state, including New Hampshire. 
And she counts on the fact that people are uninformed, the Alinsky Model, taking advantage of useful idiots. 
We cut taxes and we had a $5 trillion projected surplus when I left. 
So I have thought deeply and long about what we're gonna do to do exactly what I think both the senator and the governor want, which is to rein in and stop this risk. 
And I would bring that kind of philosophy to Washington, D.C. So here is a solution to this. 
So there's a lot of work we need to do and I want to be sure what's called the AUMF, has the authority that is needed going forward. 
So, look, we brought it out, you were supposed to make a billion dollars in the state. 
I believe that corruption is rampant, and the fact that major bank after major bank has reached multi billion dollar settlements with the United States government when we have a weak regulator system tells me that not only did we have to bail them out once, if we don't start breaking them up, we're going to have to bail them out again, and I do not want to see that happen...
I didn't know her money would be used on private jets going all over the world. 
Now that applies universally to giant corporations that with lobbyists right now are not paying taxes, and as small business. 
Because in the end, my goal is not simply to live on this earth for 80 years, but to live an eternity with my creator. 
And that doesn't include all the drugs that are pouring across and destroying our country. 
In the two hours of this of this debate, five people have died from drug-related deaths, $100 million has been added to our national debt, 200 babies have been killed by abortionists, and two veterans have taken their lives out of despair. 
And I know that he's someone that you have to continuingly stand up to because, like many bullies, he is somebody who will take as much as he possibly can unless you do. 
But I -- but I'm very hopeful that I'm not the only one who's willing to pick up the baton of freedom, because freedom is not free, and we must fight for it every day. 
And the primary voters are making the assessment for each of us, who is best prepared to keep this country safe, to rebuild the military, to rebuild our Navy, our Air Force, our Army, our Marines, and to ensure that we keep America safe. 
The Department of Education, like every federal agency, will never be satisfied. 
We have to stand up to his bullying, and specifically in Syria, it is important and I applaud the administration because they are engaged in talks right now with the Russians to make it clear that they've got to be part of the solution to try to end that bloody conflict. 
One of the things we've seen here is how easy it is for Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton to get distracted from dealing with radical Islamic terrorism. 
And after those planes hit, for five-and-a-half-hours after that, I couldn't reach her, didn't know whether she was dead or alive, and we had three children at the time, 8, 5 and 1. 
But you know, a number of years ago, people were saying normal relationship with Cuba, what a bad and silly idea. 
What I said is that ethanol will phase out, it is phasing out now. 
And it is now being put into place everyplace across the state of Ohio. 
It's not easy in a democracy, but we have to keep it in mind. 
They have to be taught to you in strong families and reinforced in you in strong communities. 
We're certainly hopeful that the violence will cease, but there's reason to be highly skeptical. 
You know, a minute ago, Neil asked: What has President Obama do done to illustrate that he wants to go after guns? 
Well, this is what I would say, and the Congressman was right. 
I would repeal Obamacare for a variety of reasons. 
You sit down and you work with people, you make demands of people, in this case demanding Iran stop the support of international terrorism. 
You have six financial institutions today that have assets of 56 percent, equivalent to 56 percent of the GDP In America. 
Well, I don't agree with that, because we will not get the support on the ground in Syria to dislodge ISIS if the fighters there who are not associated with ISIS, but whose principal goal is getting rid of Assad, don't believe there is a political, diplomatic channel that is ongoing. 
As you know, he came to Vermont to campaign for me when he was a senator. 
Let me just tell you, let me just which happens to be true. 
And let'slet's...we both agree with campaign finance reform. 
We have to enforce it, there have to be consequences attached to it. 
6.5 million people are working part-time, most of whom want to work full-time. 
If you look at Dwight Eisenhower in the 1950s, they started moving people out and the rest of them left. 
...built an unbelievable company worth billions and billions of dollars. 
You know, you had Herbert Hoover before that saying, no, we got to only worry about the deficit. 
And that's why since then, I have said repeatedly, if you are serious about immigration reform, then the key that unlocks the door to being able to do that is not just to pass a law that says it is going to enforce the law, but to actually do it. 
Democrats, Republicans, independents, we're going to make progress together when I'm president. 
We now have driven costs down to the lowest they've been in 50 years. 
When they passed Obamacare they put a bailout fund in Obamacare. 
Secretary...If the United States does not lead, there is not another leader. 
Results count, and as governor, I pushed Florida up to the top in terms of jobs, income and small business growth. 
And I will make no apologies, ever, for protecting the lives and the safety of the American people. 
I am convinced that if this president could confiscate every gun in America, he would. 
That, I think, between the two of us demonstrates the strength of the support we have among people who want to see change in our country. 
I mean, all of us support funding Planned Parenthood. 
We pay for it with the same dollars that we pay for traditional healthcare with. 
How tough it is to take away a property from an elderly woman? 
Let me just say that I have gotten to know him over the last three or four days. 
On September 10th, 2001, I was named chief federal prosecutor in New Jersey and on September 11th, 2001, my wife and my brother who are in the audience tonight went through the World Trade Center and to their offices just blocks away from the Trade Center. 
stand up together and say, "Hand over this treaty, and protect this country." Well, let me tell you, Dana, number one, I'm proud to stand for life. 
I like Marco Rubio, and he's a smart person and a good guy, but he simply does not have the experience to be president of the United States and make these decisions. 
Think about it: six and a half million people working part-time. 
Now, in fact, what we have got to do -- and I think there is widespread agreement here -- is the United States cannot do it alone. 
My dad was a small businessman, a really small business. 
But we need to understand that American Muslims are on the front line of our defense. 
Well, I think the bully pulpit is a wonderful place to start healing that divide. 
We were one of two states that went to AAA bond rating. 
We've spent $5 trillion dollars in the Middle East with thinking like that. 
If the United States military is going to be engaged by a commander-in-chief, it should only be engaged in an endeavor to win. 
And that is that one of the things you're watching tonight are 11 quality candidates debating an important issue. 
It did not come from our Judeo-Christian roots, I can tell you that. 
First of all, I've been talking about this for over a year. 
After we get rid of ISIS, we'll start thinking about it. 
And the spiraling out-of- control requires Puerto Rico to make structural reforms. 
And I'll note that California senator Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein said, if she could say to Mr. America and Mrs. America, "give me your guns, I'm rounding them up," she would. 
Thousands of thousands you look at the number of companies and the number in terms of manufacturing of plans that we've lost 50,000 because of China. 
I will tell you, you could win a bet at a bar tonight, since we're talking about fantasy football, if you ask who the top three states in America are that produce solar energy: California and Arizona are easy, but number three is New Jersey. 
In 1988, I lost an election because I said we should not have assault weapons on the streets of America. 
I will do so in a way that will bring people together. 
That is a reasonable proposal that the people of this country, in my judgment, will support, and so will the bulk of the Congress of the United States. 
I think it would be a grave mistake to ask for any more Iranian troops inside Syria. 
The attacker in San Bernardino was an American citizen, born and raised in this country. 
Chuck, actually we looked at it, but it turns out to be a disaster. 
As soon as we learned that they looked at that information - we fired that person. 
All my life, I brought people together over deep divides and very old wounds, and that's what we need now in a new leader. 
Hillary Clinton's approach to this is more top-down, more regulation, more taxes, more government, and it will destroy our economy. 
They are not our enemy, but they are certainly not our friend. 
You want to make the Veterans Administration do a better job, give them give veterans choices and you'll get a much better result. 
Well, you know, it's not a simple issue, and now, you know, we've gotten evidence that there can been active viruses in other bodily fluids like saliva and urine. 
And we need to change the way we do law enforcement, and of course, we need more programs and facilities, so when somebody is ready to get help, there's a place for them to go. 
But, with all due respect, to start over again with a whole new debate is something that I think would set us back. 
And then, of course, 9/11 happened, which happened before there was an invasion of Iraq. 
What I would do is understand that when you have three out of the four largest banks today, bigger than they were when we bailed them out because they were too big to fail, when you have the six largest financial institutions having assets of 60 percent of the GDP of America, it is very clear to me what you have to do. 
But, what didn't happen is we didn't build the walls effectively and we didn't control the border. 
I wish it were spent right here in the United States, on our schools, hospitals, roads, airports, and everything else that are all falling apart. 
Do you want another Washington deal maker who will do business as usual, cut deals with the Democrats, grow government, grow debt and give up our fundamental liberties? 
Well, again, I mean, obviously, as already has been pointed out, the only budget that Ted has ever voted for is a budget that Rand Paul sponsored that brags about cutting defense spending. 
But the only way we can get things done is by having millions of people coming together. 
When I'm president, we are rebuilding the U.S. military. 
That's OK. New Jersey had its best year of job growth in the last 15 years under five different governors this year in New Jersey. 
My Muslim friends, some, said, "thank you very much; we'll get to the bottom of it.
So he had to leave the Situation Room after hearing from the small group advising him and he had to make that decision. 
If you raise the minimum wage, you're going to make people more expensive than a machine. 
And that is you're not going to accomplish what has to be done for working families and the middle class unless there is campaign finance reform. 
And we need a president and a cabinet who understands that the first and most important priority of the president of the United States is to protect the safety and security of Americans. 
We need to rebuild our military, and this president has let it diminish to a point where tinpot dictators like the mullahs in Iran are taking our Navy ships. 
The natural next question is who actually has done so. 
Well, my relationship with him, it's it's interesting. 
But I think we still have to carefully watch them. 
So is that the judgment that you bring to the table, that Hillary Clinton...is a great negotiator, that she could bring about a better deal on Iran? 
The Rubio-Schumer amnesty plan passed the Senate, and it was on the verge of passing the House. 
This is a country that is of, for and by the people. 
Look, as Frederick Douglas said, we are one, our cause is one, and we must help each other if we are going to succeed. 
I do tremendous the largest bank in the world is in one of my buildings in Manhattan. 
We've heard it said on the stage that President Obama knows exactly what he's doing. 
I'm a governor, I don't have a retirement program in my state, and I don't disagree with that. 
Here, we actually need 1,000 because we have natural barriers. 
I uses the laws to my benefit, because I run a company. 
That they were going to have to hire 20,000 new IRS agencies to collect it. 
The statistics from Wisconsin are particularly troubling, because it is the highest rate of incarceration for African-Americans in our nation, twice the national average. 
And if our middle class makes more money, they spend more money, and our whole economy grows. 
First and foremost, we need to go and destroy ISIS. 
You know, when you go into the store and buy a box of laundry detergent, and the price has up you know, 50 cents because of regulations, a poor person notices that. 
I would not bring it back in any sort of widespread use. 
But here's the best way that we're going to make America much more exceptional: it is to make sure we put someone on that stage in September who will fight Hillary Clinton and make sure she never, ever gets in the White House again. 
In fact, climate change is directly related to the growth of terrorism. 
And speaking of that, if she runs, she's running for one reason. 
It's going to be paid for by Canada, by the way maybe I'll get Canada to pay? 
I can tell you, I'm the last person that she wants to run against. 
Millions of people have high deductibles and co-payments. 
Not only did I vote against it, I helped lead the opposition. 
Well, first of all, let me applaud my good friend Jim Webb for his service to this country in so many ways. 
It is a health care law that is basically forcing companies to lay people off, cut people's hours, move people to part-time. 
In fact, we vetoed five income tax increases during my time as governor. 
When I'm president, we are going to enforce the law first, prove to people that illegal immigration is under control. 
I'm thankful that the aid trucks are finally getting into Syria. 
The Republicans have voted to repeal it nearly 60 times. 
What being part of the establishment is, is, in the last quarter, having a super PAC that raised $15 million from Wall Street, that throughout one's life raised a whole lot of money from the drug companies and other special interests. 
Now, it is true that there are a bunch of lobbyists, and a bunch of Democrats in this state spending millions of dollars trying to convince the people of Iowa that I somehow oppose ethanol. 
Let me set the record straight on a couple of things. 
Please, if I could just...We have to make our military bigger, better, stronger than ever before so that nobody messes with us, and a long run, it's going to save us. 
You used to support a 500 percent increase in the number of guest workers, now you say that you're against it. 
And I really don't care what special interests or lobbyists have to say. 
Number one, we do have more people who have access to health care. 
And we need to focus on American interests, not on global aspirations... 
I do, however, believe in Reagan's 11th commandment, and will not be engaging in awful things about my compatriots here. 
Well, the role has been defined by each person who's held it. 
I think we have a president who, as a president, is totally incompetent, and he doesn't know what he's doing. 
You know, back in September, my friend Donald said that he had had his lawyers look at this from every which way, and there was no issue there. 
Seventeen more million more people have health care. 
Well, you know, Senator, I don't thinkI don't... ...I don't think you could find any person in political life today who has been subjected to more attacks and had more money spent against her by special interests, among whom you have named a few, than I. 
And by the way and Ben said incorrectly and I'm not saying this as a knock he's one of finest men. 
Veterans should be able to take their V.A. benefits to any hospital or any doctor they want to go to. 
I stood in that region with my family, and every time a plane went overhead in the weeks after that, people's heads jerked to the sky because they thought it was happening again. 
If there was a and you know I'm not bringing a suit. 
You know, when I ran five years ago, the entire leadership of my party in Washington lined up against me. 
And then you know what you do when you're the president? 
You want to know why things don't get done in Washington? 
We lose with ISIS. We lose with one of the worst deals I've ever seen negotiated of any kind, that's our recent catastrophe with Iran. 
I will seek out the best advice, and I will create a strategy and I will persuade the American people what the role of America should be. 
Well, first of all, I'm not a politician, so I'm never going to become a politician. 
And he led the charge to finally fix this immigration problem that has existed now for, as Marco says, for 30 years. 
And if you think walls don't work, all you have to do is ask Israel. 
People of Vermont sent me to Washington as an independent. 
The simple fact is one of the ways, Maria, to solve the problem you described is narrow the number of people coming by family petitioning to what every other country has so that we have the best and the brightest that come to our country. 
When do that, you endanger even more Americans around the world to be the subject of this type of hostage taking and illegal detention. 
I want to go back to what we were talking about earlier, this budget deal in Washington. 
And that we have managed to get to that position in our country is truly a shame. 
But I'm not giving up on Libya and I don't think anybody should. 
I agree completely with Secretary Powell, who said today this is an absurdity. 
As such, everybody is welcome from any race, any country, any religion, if they want to be Americans. 
But when (ph) it comes to closing down the federal government, you gotta be very careful about that. 
It will take Sunni Arabs to reject them ideologically and defeat them militarily. 
And secondly, we should pass the legislation that I've introduced that suspends all refugees from nations that ISIS or Al Qaida controls significant territory. 
Two times of the Supreme Court, Justice Roberts approved something that he should have never raised his hand to approve. 
Now, what I think is that right now we have got to do our best in developing positive relations with Russia. 
And if you don't agree with their lifestyle, say a prayer for them when they leave and hope they change their behavior. 
He is this president is undermining the constitutional basis of this government. 
Well, I haven't said anything about me being the only one to do anything, so let me try that. 
It could be a pandemic, a major natural disaster or an attack on our country. 
He doesn't want to do it, because presumably there's something in there...that is bad. 
Because we don't want them in and out we don't want them in and out of the prisons. 
And the net effect was, during my eight years, 1.3 million jobs were created. 
They know that this country is not respected around the world anymore. 
Maybe it works for Hillary Clinton it doesn't work for anybody on this on stage. 
We need to rethink our criminal justice system, we we've got a lot of work to do in that area. 
They are they're in a position where they're smothering people. 
And we're going to have a great, great country, greater than ever before. 
That gives us greater ability to stop acts of terrorism, and he knows that that's the case. 
We need to move on this consensus that exists in the country. 
And, you know, for six-and-a-half years, we've had a gigantic party. 
We can have it, and we can have our allies, and we can be strong as a country, and we can project across this globe with unity, not just doing it alone. 
If they had guns, he wouldn't be around very long. 
I have over and over again led the fight to defend Israel, to fight for Israel. 
And I was going to tell you, whether I'm president or not, we better make it clear to the Saudis that we're going to support you, we're in relation with you just like we were in the first Gulf War, but you've got to knock off the funding and teaching of radical clerics who are the very people who try to destroy us and will turn around and destroy them. 
O'MALLEY: Instead of Andrea, I think, instead of attacking one another on health care, we should be talking about the things that are actually working. 
And indeed, I joined with Senator McCain in legislation that would prohibit line officers from employing it because I think bad things happen when enhanced interrogation is employed at lower levels. 
It is disproportionately African-American and minority. 
" When it comes to deciding which side of the line you're on, the Rubio-Schumer amnesty plan apparently supported by the donor class, which is why Washington supported it. 
He voted to let guns go onto the Amtrak, guns go into National Parks. 
Hillary Clinton says, basically, we just gotta get used to it. 
And I have set forth a compact that would do just that for debt-free tuition. 
We are $19 trillion dollars, we have a country that's going to hell, we have an infrastructure that's falling apart. 
And in my opinion, it makes absolutely no we're the only one of the only countries, we're going to take care of those babies for 70, 75, 80, 90 years? 
And I'll point out look, we had a gold standard under Bretton Woods, we had it for about 170 years of our nation's history, and enjoyed booming economic growth and lower inflation than we have had with the Fed now. 
I left seven years ago, I've gotten great credit for my timing, and that's what I'm all about. 
I want to take off from that point and argue the same thing. 
It has to be based on what skills you have, what you can contribute economically, and most important of all, on whether or not you're coming here to become an American, not just live in America, but be an American. 
We changed the law to give the power to the VA secretary the ability to fire any executive that isn't doing their job. 
For what's at stake in this election is not simply what party's going to be in charge. 
I was just up in Manchester, I met with the police officers yesterday. 
We're going to win a lot, it's going to be a big difference, believe me. 
But if you look at the problem of drugs in this in this society today, it's a serious problem. 
And Dulce Candy a pretty cool name, actually that is now an entrepreneur over Youtube is part of that American spirit, and we should celebrate it as conservatives. 
And I will be proud to continue to do so as president of the United States. 
Well Lester, I spent a lot of time last week being outraged by what's happening in Flint, Michigan and I think every single American should be outraged. 
Well, sure, you put your finger on what the problem is. 
What we've got to do as Democratswhat we've got to do as Democrats is to be united to actually solve these problems. 
Their families are the victims too, their children are the victims too, and their employers are the victims also. 
Do you think that the Chinese, if they had a 45 percent tariff imposed on all their imports wouldn't retaliate and start buying Airbus? 
It enabled him the president to certify them en masse without mandating meaningful background checks. 
And my record was one of cutting taxes each and every year. 
That is the most important decision for the voters to make. 
I'm very proud of the fact that we have more than 750 thousand donors, and the vast majority of them are giving small contributions. 
I believe that every single human being is entitled to the protection of our laws, whether they can vote or not. 
But I also want to emphasize the fact that as we get the economy moving, and I hope I get a question about how do we get the economy moving, there will be a lot more opportunities for poor people not to be poor people because this is America. 
The guy who systematically and habitually violates the constitution on the Supreme Court? 
My tax plan typical family of four, first $36,000 you earn, you pay nothing in taxes no income taxes, no payroll taxes, no nothing. 
So look, in diplomacy, you are always trying to see how you can figure out the interest of the other to see if there isn't some way you can advance your security and your values. 
We would still have sexism preventing women from getting equal pay. 
In the Middle East, we have people chopping the heads off Christians, we have people chopping the heads off many other people. 
You see, because if you really want to get to a balanced budget, you need to reduce your expenses and you need to grow your economy. 
And this president turns his back this president doesn't enforce the marijuana laws in this country because he doesn't agree with them. 
I want the chance to do it again to protect you, your children and your families. 
And the coalition meaning U.S. leadership on the ground would not allow them to proceed with those airstrikes. 
This plan eliminates the payroll tax, eliminates the death tax, eliminates the corporate income tax, and it abolishes the IRS. 
And I think that's one of the things that people so vehemently want to get rid of, big government. 
And he proposed an amendment that would legalized people here. 
It is absolutely absurd to say that I had any kind of a relationship with them. 
We have people in Washington that don't know what they're doing. 
We desperately need a conservative leader as president of the United States. 
And my effort in introducing them was to find a solution that reflected common ground and that fixed the problem. 
We're right now heading into a medical system with about a 90,000-doctor shortage in America and socialized medicine; whether proposed by the Democrats or proposed by a Republican would hurt the people of this country. 
If there's an act of violence in America, his immediate answer before he even knows the facts is gun control. 
And we are going to kick your rear end out of the White House come this fall. 
The state of New Jersey too bad Chris Christie is not here, he could tell you the state of New Jersey went to build a very large tower that was going to employ thousands of people. 
But Apple doesn't want to do it because they think it hurts their brand. 
Well, Gwen and Judy, thank you very much for hosting this event. 
So from 6:30 p.m. to 9:15, that's what CNN was reporting. 
They de-value their currencies to such an extent that our businesses cannot compete with them, our workers lose their jobs...
And after we've done those two things, I believe the American people...will be very reasonable and responsible about what you do with someone who's been here and isn't a criminal. 
Yes, it is ideological, and let me contrast President Obama, who at the prayer breakfast, essentially acted as an apologist. 
She was a principled pioneer that helped change this country, helped remedy racial injustice, and that would be an honor that would be entirely appropriate. 
By 2022 that program expires by virtue of the existing law, and at that point it will go away. 
That's why we need to work with them, not demonize them, as the Republicans have been doing. 
A conservative, because that's the point of this, believes in limited government, believes in a entrepreneurial capitalism and a strong national defense. 
But at the end of the day for a dozen different reasons, not the least of which is that ISIS would like American combat troops on the ground so they could reach out to the Muslim world and say, "Look, we're taking on those terrible Americans." The combat on the ground must be done by Muslim troops with our support. 
We pay, by far, the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. 
It comes from the right, from the left, from people on all sides of the political spectrum. 
Sixteen-year-old, heroin-addicted drug girl on the floor of the county lockup, I'm pro-life for her life. 
And our workers are losing their jobs, and you're going...I'm the only one who is going to save Social Security, believe me. 
The Republicans just voted last week to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and thank goodness, President Obama vetoed it and saved Obamacare for the American people. 
You can if you you flew in with your 767, didn't you? 
So, I've laid out a five-point plan about what we can do together. 
And so when we set out to do tax reform, we endeavor to have a pro-family tax code, and we endeavor to do it because we know how difficult it is for families in the 21st century to afford the cost of living. 
I'm very much against the government being involved in every aspect of our lives, you know? 
I would also note that the scripture tells us, "you shall know them by their fruit.
The great middle that defines our country will have a chance to be able to pursue their dreams as they see fit. 
One of the profanities that I got credited with using, that I didn't use, was a very bad word, two weeks ago, that I never used. 
I'm not going to name their names because I'm not going to embarrass, but virtually every person that you read about on the front page of the business sections, they've used the law. 
And I don't want to rip away the security that people finally have; 18 million people now have healthcare; preexisting conditions are no longer a bar. 
The triad is our ability of the United States to conduct nuclear attacks using airplanes, using missiles launched from silos or from the ground, and also from our nuclear subs' ability to attack. 
I think there has to be consequences for violating our immigration laws. 
We need to get back to training people in this country to do the jobs of the 21st century. 
It was an effort led by several people that provided almost an instant path with very little obstacles moving forward. 
We have got to work in strong coalition with the major powers of the world and with those Muslim countries that are prepared to stand up and take on terrorism. 
And I think they do not become American citizens, they do not vote. 
We need to focus our attention on Iran, because if you miss Iran, you are not going to get ISIS. 
I believe that there is a consensus in this country. 
And it troubles me that people are rewarded for tearing down our country. 
But I have never supported cap- and-trade and I never thought it was a good idea. 
I'm going to create a strategy that is based on the simple fact that the United States needs to lead the world. 
There is no other industry in America that was given the total pass that the gun makers and dealers were and that needs to be reversed. 
We have to end Obamacare, and we have to make our country great again, and I will do that. 
ISIS is not just a jihadist group, they're an apocalyptic group. 
And I would note, if you want to assess if you want to assess...who is telling the truth... 
We have a country, where, to assimilate, you have to speak English. 
Not committing crimes and earn legal status where you're not cutting in front of the line for people that are patiently waiting outside. 
One of them was just waving to me, he was laughing and smiling. 
Well, sadly it's reality, and it has been heartbreaking, and incredibly outraging to see the constant stories of young men like Walter Scott, as you said, who have been killed by police officers. 
And that's why I think these ideas up here are great, and that's what we should have is have more discussions like this and less gotcha. 
When it comes to ISIS, we've got to have a focused objective. 
And yet they are seeing almost all new income and all new wealth going to the top 1 percent. 
I don't agree with the mandate and the program that's in place, but I think it's unfair that these people have gone out and invested all this money into this program and we're just going to yank it away from them. 
But she has her super PAC helping her out, the American mainstream media. 
The reasoned principle matters, sadly was illustrated by the first questions today. 
Immigration reform, economic revitalization with manufacturing, with infrastructurewe put it out there, and we begin to work on an ambitious, big, bold agenda that will actually produce the results that I want to see for our country. 
Well, I am in the middle, here, and... Lots of things coming from all directions. 
When I during my time, we were one of the two states to go to AAA bond rating. 
And every day, I think about what we need to do to make sure that opportunity is available not just for her, but for all of our children. 
They are devaluing it's so impossible for you look at Caterpillar Tractor and what's happening with Caterpillar and Kamatsu. 
I will bring jobs back from Mexico, where New Hampshire, by the way, has been virtually wiped out. 
What would motivate me and what would be the guiding light for me in terms of immigration reform, Judy, is to bring families together, not divide them up. 
But I would note not only that Marco has a long record when it comes to amnesty. 
Our average contribution is $27 dollars, I'm very proud of that. 
The CEOs of large multinationals may like Hillary. 
Number two, this program, this metadata program is actually more strict than what a regular law enforcement agency has now. 
We need someone who has a proven record to take our case to the American people because our philosophy is by far the best one. 
Neil, that's the difference of being an executive. 
It wasn't that long ago that Russia had no influence in the region at all. 
And our focus has got to be on intelligence, increased manpower, fighting internationally targets. 
You know, the fact is that this president has penalized corporations in America. 
Once you set that objective, we have the tools to carry that out. 
And, as I say, my expression is, let's make America great again. 
Here in the homeland, unlike combating ISIL abroad, we're almost like it's your body's immune system. 
Ask yourself, which candidate will keep you and our country safer, stronger and freer? 
President Obama's policing commission came out with some. 
There was a breach because the DNC vendor screwed up, information came to our campaign. 
You're going to get all of these 1,400 people that are being laid off they're laid off. 
But Senator Sanders, if I can... You know, I have to say I'm not sure whether we're talking about the plan you just introduced tonight, or we're talking about the plan you introduced nine times in the Congress. 
Well, of course, each of these cases needs to be looked at individually and analyzed. 
We need to give the the appropriate support for those kind of things. 
The B-52 is still operational as the long range bomber; it was inaugurated in the age of Harry Truman. 
Well, let me tell you, Donald Trump and his billionaire friends under my policies are going to pay a hell of a lot more in taxes today taxes in the future than they're paying today. 
And that's what they will do if the American defense agreements wither away, which is why we have to rebuild the military, but why we can't walk away from our Asia-Pacific defense status. 
It worked for Reagan and it works for our team in Ohio. 
And I would hope in the midst of all of this discussion, this country makes certain that we do not turn our backs on the men and women who put their lives on the line to defend us, and that we stand with them as they have stood with us. 
If you were to nominate somebody, let's have him pick somebody that's going to have unanimous approval, and such widespread approval across the country that this could happen without a lot of recrimination. 
So Republicans talk a good game about veterans, but when it came to put money on the line to protect our veterans, frankly, they were not there. 
And, with your thinking, you will never bring peace. 
A no-fly zone would prevent the outflow of refugees and give us a chance to have some safe spaces. 
I'm the only one on this stage that has a plan that would create jobs, cut taxes, balance the budget and can get it done because I'm realistic. 
And with respect to the 2007 bill, this was Ted Kennedy's bill. 
If, instead, the President Bush had appointed Edith Jones, and Mike Luttig, which is who I would have appointed, Obamacare would have been struck down three years ago, and the marriage laws of all 50 states would be on the books. 
But if you go back and you study the design of our country, it was really designed for the citizen statesman. 
They blew up, wait a minute They blew up a Russian airplane. 
People make mistakes and I'm certainly not saying you did it for any kind of financial advantage. 
So, we're talking about we're talking about reform for people like me and people like Senator Cruz, as he talked about earlier, who are years away from retirement that have a way to plan for these changes, and way that's very reasonable. 
Secondly, I hope you saw tonight that executive experience really matters. 
And every single income decile sees a double-digit increase in after-tax income. 
They're making a half, two-thirds what they used to make. 
And In 2008, one of them was elected president of this country and the result has been a disaster. 
No. 2 is, what are we doing in the Middle East with the combination of the Sunni-Shia conflict driven by the Shia arc that Iran is now trying to establish in the Middle East, also the growing threat of ISIS. 
They do not get any credit for their care-taking responsibilities. 
That is what the Democrats in the Senate have put forward as a proposal. 
My simple Flat Tax says that, for a family of four, for the first $36,000 you earn, you pay no taxes whatsoever. 
Well, I think we should have policies that don't allow them to just enlarge themselves at the expense of smaller entities. 
Similarly, we need to tackle mass incarceration, and this may be the only bi-partisan issue in the congress this year. 
The first is executive power, the second is foreign policy, and the third is legislation. 
They're the greatest people defending the United States of America and we need to take care of them, and we will. 
The American people have rejected your agenda and now you're trying to go around it. 
And the only reason we got them back is because we owed them with a stupid deal, $150 billion. 
And, Maria, I will note, she's got a lot of experience, but her policies have proven disastrous. 
We've seen six and a half years of President Obama leading from behind. 
If you had nominated Edith Jones or Mike Ludig (ph) you would have had a bloody fight and they weren't willing to spend political capital to put a strong judicial conservative on the court. 
The fact she had a private email server in her basement, using national security secrets running through it, could have been hacked by the Russians, the Chinese, or two 18-year-olds on a toot (ph) wanting to have some fun. 
Obviously, in the first, we do have to have a -- an American-led air campaign, we have to have Arab and Kurdish troops on the ground. 
We have the momentum, we're on a path to a victory. O'MALLEY: Lester, I I apologize for not hearing all of that question. 
Our message has to be big, and bold, and positive, and connect, not just with people's heads but also connect with their hearts. 
There needs to be more than one meeting, there needs to complete dialogue with the large technology companies. 
but...I think, as commander in chief, you've got to constantly be evaluating the decisions you have to make. 
I ask for your support on the caucuses come Monday night and I will make you proud as our party's nominee. 
He just left it off, and now he's going to protect the people from the big bad banks. 
This notion that Barack Obama doesn't know what he's doing is just not true. 
Do you know why we can't do what every other country major country on Earth is doing? 
It should be what are your substantive positions... 
But in terms of the children, I don't know to whom you're sending a message. 
And for the Russians, frankly, it's time that we punched the Russians in the nose. 
Because you cannot be an honest broker in a dispute between two sides in which one of the sides is constantly acting in bad faith. 
Think about the effect that, that's going to have on those children when they go back to school tomorrow wondering filled with anxiety to whether they're really going to be safe. 
Kid gets caught with marijuana, that kid has a police record. 
That is not consistent conservatism, that is political calculation. 
We will use those proceeds, a hundred billion a year, to invest in rebuilding our infrastructure. 
I am still sick and tired of Hillary Clinton's e-mails. 
We need to rebuild our counterintelligence and intelligence capabilities. 
But I do hope that in years to come, just as occurred with Cuba, 10, 20 years ago, people would say, reach normalized relations with Cuba. 
If we had Obamacare in place right now, the odds are very high my father would have been laid off, because it's teenaged kids like my dad who have gotten laid off. 
Obamacare, we're going to repeal it and replace it. 
And yet, there is the perception in the Latino community that instead of trying to prove to Latinos who has the best plan, the best platform to help them, that you two are spending the time arguing with each other. 
Cutting taxes, cutting regulation, unleashing small businesses and rebuilding the Military to defeat radical Islamic terrorism our strategy is simple. 
And we're not going to lose Pfizer, which is now leaving, and other great companies, which is now leaving. 
Eminent domain, the Keystone pipeline do you consider that a private job? 
The first thing is we have to strengthen our alliances around the world. 
We'll expand health savings accounts; and we will de-link health insurance from employment so that you don't lose your health insurance when you lose your job, and that way health insurance can be personal, portable and affordable and we keep government from getting in between us and our doctors. 
But, you have to get them to agree what you want, and that's part of being a deal maker. 
I think we're at war with jihadists who have -- I think THAT you can talk about Islamists who clearly are also jihadists, but I think it's not particularly helpful to make the case that Senator Sanders was just making that I agree with, that we've got to reach out to Muslim countries. 
We have a president who is unwilling to utter its name. 
" We won't know under this agreement there are several facilities in Iran they designate as military facilities that are off limit all together. 
When those buildings came down, she was trapped in her building and I didn't hear from her over six hours. 
Well, Senator, look, I think we're in vigorous agreement here. 
That is designed to allow them to hide the evidence. 
We can in fact create jobs and provide job security. 
Look, I am in the establishment because my dad, the greatest man alive was president of the United States and my brother, who I adore as well as fantastic brother was president. 
is he's run to the United Nations, and he wants to use the United Nations to bind the United States, and take away our sovereignty. 
I want to I want to I want to say something about what the senator just said. 
Becky, if you want a 10 percent flat tax where the numbers add up, I rolled out my tax plan today, you can find it on line at tedcruz.org. 
Well, before I go there, I will tell you, I will bring jobs back from China. 
Well, recognize that, you know, President George W. Bush is a great friend of ours, and we spent many wonderful days at the White House. 
Well, Josh, as you noted, this is a problem that, for me, I understand first-hand. 
They go into the store and they buy a bar of soap, it costs 10 cents more, they notice it. 
Immigration is not an issue that I read about in the newspaper or watch a documentary on PBS or CNN. 
And I'll tell you, his passing tonight, our prayers are with his family, with his wife, Maureen, who he adored, his nine children, his 36 grandkids. 
And that's why we must make sure we continue to frack. 
If you do go through Congress, you can absolutely solve the problem. 
This has gone on too long and it's time the entire country stood up against the NRA. 
We're going to use that money to rebuild our infrastructure and create up to 13 million jobs. 
His wife, sad, but I just wish we hadn't run so fast into politics. 
See, what we've done in Ohio, and what a president needs to do, is to have a cabinet and a whole operation that's jobs-friendly. 
Now, I revere my late mother, and she gave me a lot of good advice. 
If they are held by Shias it will trigger sectarian violence. 
And when they're the 16-year-old drug addict in the Florida county lockup, that life is just as precious as the life in the womb. 
The fact of the matter is he doesn't realize that we now live in the 21st century, and that war is very different than it used to be before. 
As a senator from a rural state, what I can tell Secretary Clinton, that all the shouting in the world is not going to do what I would hope all of us want, and that is keep guns out of the hands of people who should not have those guns and end this horrible violence that we are seeing. 
He's going in, and we can go in, and everybody should go in. 
I gave to a foundation that, frankly, that foundation is supposed to do good. 
Well, first of all, let's remember where we were when Bush left office. 
You're not going to be able to ram down the throat of the American people your approach. 
When you say crazy zealot, are you talking about you? 
I was responsible for getting those sanctions imposed which put the pressure on Iran. 
Well, first of all first of all, Megyn, you should know that -- that President Reagan expanded Medicaid three or four times. 
And I will do all that I can in this campaign to reach out and explain what I stand for and what I will do as president. 
And then he went to prosecutors like us, and he said, never again. 
If you don't have that, you don't have the rule of law. 
I would've nominated my former boss Liberman, who was Justice Scalia's first law clerk. 
This isn't just the country I was born in, this is the nation that literally changed the history of my family. 
Let us be clear that the greed and recklessness and illegal behavior of Wall Street, where fraud is a business model, helped to destroy this economy and the lives of millions of people. 
And I had the good sense to leave Atlantic City, which by the way, Caesars just went bankrupt. 
If you've had a bumper crop, you don't owe me triple tithes. 
We've got to strengthen the V.A. We do not privatize the V.A. 
I think what we really need to do is start trimming the regulatory agencies rather than going after the people who are trying to increase the viability, economic viability of our society. 
So, you know, it's fine for you to say what you're going to say, but I looked very carefully at your proposal. 
Both David Souter and John Roberts, they didn't have a long paper trail. 
And, I believe there is still a place in our country for faith, integrity, and common sense. 
So I do think questions have been raised and questions have to be answered because when New Hampshire voters go on Tuesday to cast your vote, you are voting both for a president and a commander in chief. 
He was firing Dennis Rodman on "Celebrity Apprentice." 
This is about the bigger, broader war against ISIS. We need to bring together our European and our Sunni Arab allies, and we need to develop a strategy together to take on ISIS every place that it is around the world, so that together, all of us can take ISIS out, destroy it, and then move on to come back to our country, protect our homeland security and make sure that the American people are safe. 
I regret that subsequently, CNN reported on that they didn't correct that story until 9:15 that night. 
But let me say, Wolf, I really find it amazing that Donald believes that he is the one who discovered the issue of illegal immigration. 
Unfortunately, Governor Christie has endorsed many of the ideas that Barack Obama supports, whether it is Common Core or gun control or the appointment of Sonia Sotomayor or the donation he made to Planned Parenthood. 
But you wouldn't know anything about it because you're a lousy businessman. 
If I'm elected president, on the first day in office I will rescind every single illegal and unconstitutional executive action. 
Now, until that audit's done, and I don't think anybody would blame me, I'm not giving it... audited for those years. 
Now, I also feel I'm a common-sense conservative, because some of the views I don't agree with. 
My family's here, and my little granddaughter, who's three years old, said she wanted to come to the debate. 
But I feel that the gun-free zones and, you know, when you say that, that's target practice for the sickos and for the mentally ill. 
And they have a lot of control over our politicians. 
But this is what's important to do is we must deal frontally with this threat of radical Islamists, especially from ISIS. 
Same exact amount, but you take this little beautiful baby, and you pump I mean, it looks just like it's meant for a horse, not for a child, and we've had so many instances, people that work for me. 
And I will tell you this, within the first 100 days that I am president, I will put that proposal to the Congress. 
Our friends no longer think we have their back and our enemies no longer fear us, and we're in a much difficult we're in a much different position than we should be. 
We are at war with people who use their religion for purposes of power and oppression. 
Look, I hate to crash the party to you, Mr. Baker, but, you know, what's fair...
We cannot keep talking past each other, declaring all Republicans are our enemies or the war is all about being against millionaires or billionaires, or it's all against American Muslims, all against immigrants. 
The single greatest nation in the history of all mankind. 
The bible commands us to let our light shine on the world. 
How did he keep us safe when the World Trade Center the World excuse me. 
You know, I think, again, both of us share the goal of trying to make college affordable for all young Americans. 
We need to make America fair again for all businesses, but especially those being run by small business owners. 
What I agree with is that we need a significantly changed taxation system. 
And there's nothing really that interesting in them. 
But we also recognize that North Korea is in severe financial straits, and they have decided to use their resources to build their military, rather than to feed their people and to take care of the various humanitarian responsibilities that they have. 
Under my plan, we cut not only taxes for the middle class, but we cut taxes for corporations. 
You know, as a Cuban, I might go with Cohiba (ph), and I'll tell you, I'd go with, for Heidi, Angel, because she is my angel. 
Our job is to bring people together around strong, commonsense gun legislation. 
Or if a bunch of people with journalism degrees were coming over and driving down the wages in the press. 
I believe I can get the money that I need by taxing the wealthy, by closing loopholes, the things that we are way overdue for doing. 
Makes it a whole lot easier for them to want to go somewhere else. 
If somebody put me on their homepage, they did it without my permission. 
You know, couple of weeks ago, it was reported that a facility is open called Jihadist University. 
They used it as an operating space to grow; and today they're not just in Iraq and Syria anymore, they're now in Libya, conducting operations in the Sinai. 
Here's the way forward: First, we must we must secure our border, the physical border, with with a wall, absolutely. 
We can talk about red lines, and ISIS being the J.V. team, and reset buttons and all this. 
They gave away their nuclear arms with the understanding that we would protect them. 
I think what we've got to do is move as aggressively as we can to normalize relations with Iran. 
I feel like I have to get into my inner Chris Christie, and point out that the reason why I should be president is listening to two senators talk about arcane amendments to bills that didn't pass. 
You know, what the Muslim Brotherhood said in the explanatory memorandum that was discovered during the Holy Land Foundation Trial was that, "they will take advantage of our PC attitude to get us. :" We have to be better than this. 
What I mean is that we need to have one of the larger voter turnouts in the world, not one of the lowest. 
There'll be people here that will talk about what they're going to do. 
He gets up and says that, and then he tells me, oh, my language was a little bit rough...
Now, once that is done, everyone agrees we need healthcare reform. 
Part of that also needs to be part of a greater effort in this country, and so there's no reason why one young women should be discriminated against from registering for the selective service. 
We led the nation in job growth seven out of eight years. 
So I hope and pray and cannot wait until this state and others give me an opportunity to serve this party as its nominee because I will defeat Hillary Clinton. 
They're building artificial islands in the South China Sea, the most important shipping lane in the world. 
When you are it's one thing to say I'm raising taxes, it's another thing to say that we are doing away with private health insurance premiums. 
Now, let's be clear, there is a role for the Federal Reserve what the Fed is doing now is it is a series of philosopher- kings trying to guess what's happening with the economy. 
Over $5,000 for each man, woman and child, and all they will have a lot more flexibility. 
"I like Ike." Moved a 1.5 million illegal immigrants out of this country, moved them just beyond the border. 
Saudi Arabia, cut off the funding for the radical clerics, the ones that preach against us. 
But I know, if we don't come in with a very tough and comprehensive approach, like the plan I'm recommending, we're gonna be behind instead of ahead...on what the next crisis could be. 
And I have to assume that if you vote against it in the Senate, you would also veto it as president. 
In fact, that country was drawn the borders of that country were drawn after World War I by Westerners that didn't understand what was happening there. 
But it is true that we are probably giving way too many in too short a period of time. 
He asked me then, he said, Ted, would you make this apologize in public? 
I'm not -- I'm not are -- I don't think you heard me. 
Barack Obama has said he doesn't believe in American leadership or America winning he is wrong. 
It's a blessing that we're living longer, so we have to increase the retirement age to reflect that blessing. 
And if I were president of the United States right now, I'd be lining up our allies to say that, if one crossed T or one dotted I does not occur, they are violate the agreement, we slap back on sanctions. 
I want to get ahead of those, and that's why I've proposed a much more comprehensive approach to deal with all of these...
I think we ought to give Ukraine offensive weapons and I think we ought to fight them on the economic basis because Putin is a one- horse country: oil and energy. 
I think God has blessed this country with enormous natural resources, and we should pursue all of the above. 
I know for a fact, as Governor of the State of Florida, we created the largest land purchasing programs, and environment clean-up programs because we had a growing economy. 
And from beginning end we need to respect it and err on the side of life. 
And let me just say to you we have ISIS beginning get get a foothold in Libya. 
They asked me a question as to pro-life or choice. 
Today, we have a legal immigration system for permanent residency that is largely based on whether or not you have a relative living here. 
They have collected and spent as much as $6 million on these ads. 
What I'd like to see is a private system without the artificial lines around every state. 
With President Reagan and George Bush, it was a bipartisan coalition to address the issue, and I think we can and should do it again. 
It's because I've been assembling a team of people who want to be involved in something that's a little bigger than themselves. 
And if you look at the question, I was in business. 
And, the first thing that we need to do is to establish our commitment to Israel which has been altered by this administration. 
He of the executive order, because nobody wants to listen to him, including the Democrats, so he just goes around signing executive orders. 
They've lost so many businesses going to Mexico because of horrible trade deals. 
Megyn, of course it's an ideological problem, that's one of the reasons I introduce the Expatriate Terrorist Act in the Senate that said if any American travels to the Middle East and joining ISIS, that he or she forfeits their citizenship so they don't use a passport to come back and wage jihad on Americans. 
There's no way he launches 11 attack I'm going to he had no fewer than 11 attacks there. 
I do believe that public colleges and universities should be tuition free. 
You know, as a pediatric neurosurgeon, I frequently faced life and death situations, and had to come up with the right diagnosis, the right plan, and execute that plan frequently with other colleagues. 
You oppose granting Puerto Rico that bankruptcy protection. 
The dictatorships have suppressed people's aspirations. 
It's going to be increased with that horrible budget from a month ago that was just approved by politicians. 
The fact is, in order to get this economy moving again, I call for freezing regulations for a year except for the problem of public safety. 
You know, after 9/11, one of the efforts that we did in New York was if you see something or hear something suspicious, report it. 
They're already sending their fighters there, we need to be consulting with our military experts and asking them what do they need in order to prevent ISIS from being able to take over Libya. 
But view is those trade policies have enabled corporate America to shut down in this country, throw millions of people out on the street. 
I have the largest bank in the world as a tenant of mine. 
Part of the reason why it hasn't risen because sometimes we're not giving people the skills they need. 
You didn't see these kind of ideas being batted around, and being batted around in a way that's civil and smart and that's trying to help to inform the voter out there. 
Or do you want a conservative, a proven conservative that will stand and fight with you each and every day? 
And, frankly, we have to stop illegal immigration. 
I will say, if politics becomes and the presidency becomes about electing people who have been Congress or in the Senate the longest, we should all rally around Joe Biden. 
But the idea that that is a solution to this is just is just crazy. 
But we will galvanize the people of this country, and we will beat Hillary Clinton. 
And in a given year, Rachel, after making billions of dollars in profit, do you know how much they're paying in taxes to the United States government in a given year? 
I believe that we have got to move toward a path toward citizenship. 
My wife, Jane, has been -- way back when before I knew her, a foster parent. 
You know, we can't -- if we're not going to send American troops, which there was never any idea of doing that, then to try to send trainers, to try to send experts, is something we offered, Europeans offered, the U.N. offered, and there wasn't a lot of responsiveness at first. 
We have grown the number of jobs by 400,000 private-sector jobs since I've been governor. 
Our government belongs to all of us, and not just the hand full of billionaires. 
But, now for millions of Americans, it's slipping away. 
And that took we lost, the metadata program, was a valuable tool that we no longer have at our disposal. 
The real issue is that Congress is owned by big money and refuses to do what the American people want them to do. 
Jeb wants to be he wants to be a tough guy tonight. 
However, what Alan Krueger said in the piece you're referring to is that if we went to $15, there are no international comparisons. 
Well, what's happening right now, Neil, is something that not been a subject of conversation by politicians. 
You can't just, you know, talk about this stuff and insult leaders around the world and expect a good result. 
And that lesson is intrinsic to my foreign policy if elected president, is the United States cannot do it alone. 
And I'm asking you to get behind me, go on our Web site and join you our effort, marcorubio.com, so we can bring an end to this silliness, this looniness, and once again re-embrace all the things that made America and the Republican Party the bearer of the conservative movement in this country.
I intend to do the exact same thing to defeat radical Islamic terrorism ...and to devote the resources from the booming economy to rebuilding our Navy, rebuilding our Air Force, rebuilding our Army and ensuring we have the capacity to keep this country safe. 
I want to follow up because I think underneath Juan Carlos' important questions, there is such a difference between everything you're hearing here on this stage, and what we hear from the Republicans. 
But the truth is that for the 40 years, the great middle class of this country has been disappearing. 
Well, you know, I would note that Marco knows what he's saying isn't true. 
And he says, the president's appointee, that crime is going up because of this. 
If these guys do it, it'll end up costing $200 billion. 
But also where it's affordable, solar, wind in Iowa has become very affordable and it makes sense. 
Watching this broadcast tonight are millions of people that are living paycheck to paycheck. 
Yes, but senator you never came to campaign for Vincent Sheheen when he was running for governor. 
What this campaign is about is creating a process for a political revolution in which millions of Americans, working people who have given up on the political process, they don't think anybody hears their pains or their concerns. 
Well, what we have to stop and think about is that we have weakened ourselves militarily to such an extent that if affects all of our military policies. 
We have systemic racism and injustice and inequities in our country and in particular, in our justice system that must be addressed and must be ended. 
Just two months ago he said that Hillary Clinton would be a great negotiator with Iran. 
But what we must do, and what we have seen in recent months, is some progress in Iraq, where finally the Iraqi army, which has not been a particularly effective fighting force, retook Ramadi. 
She wants to continue down the path of Iran, Benghazi, the Russian reset, Dodd-Frank, all the things that have that have gone wrong in this country, she would be a national security mess. 
So I have been moved by my heart ever since I was a young woman about the age of a lot of Senator Sanders' supporters worrying what I can do to make a difference for my country, and I will bring that heart with me, but I will also tell you we've got to get our heads together to come up with the best answers to solve the problems so that people can have real differences in their lives that will make them better for now and into the future.
Well, you know, on the way over here, even getting ready earlier and sitting in the green room and watching the early coverage, you know, my father carried mail on his back and his father was a coal miner and my mother's mother was an immigrant, could barely speak English. 
But he fact of the matter is the IRS is not honest and we need to get rid of them. 
Donald, adults learn...Adults learn not to interrupt people. 
We can grow economically and restore America's leadership in the world, so that everybody has a chance to rise up. 
Because Donald has supported him in the past, and he knows he can cut a deal with him. 
We have to go after price gouging and monopolistic practices and get Medicare the authority to negotiate. 
I think we need to grow more millionaires, we need create a prosperity society where people can rise up. 
His dissent, for example, on the independent counsel case is a brilliant piece of jurist work. 
They'll be expedited, they'll be back, they'll come back legally. 
You know, Senator, what I am concerned about, is not disagreement on issues, saying that this is what I would rather do, I don't agree with the president on that, calling the president weak, calling him a disappointment, calling several times that he should have a primary opponent when he ran for re-election in 2012, you know, I think that goes further than saying we have our disagreements. 
Right now, Obama is launching between 15 and 30 air attacks a day. 
A unique place where anyone from anywhere can achieve anything. 
Because the insurance companies are making a fortune because they have control of the politicians, of course, with the exception of the politicians on this stage. 
In terms of taking on my taking on my good friend, Donald Trump, beating him by 19 points in New Hampshire, 13 points in the last national poll that we saw. 
But at any rate, I didn't suggest that nothing be done. 
You spend the money today and then you hope you're going to save money tomorrow. 
The fact is, for seven years, I had to make these decisions after 9/11, make a decision about how to proceed forward with an investigation or how to pull back, whether you use certain actionable intelligence or whether not to. 
So what I would say is, number one, we need to be united against the threats that we face. 
We passed the V.A. Accountability bill that, for the first time, allows us to fire allows the V.A. secretary to fire someone who's not doing a good job, who's a senior executive. 
And I have a road map and a plan right now to get us to balance. 
In addition to that, Wolf, there is a big problem. 
You might say, you might talk, you're politicians, all talk, no action. 
And, then we have to go after sentencing, and that's one of the problems here in Wisconsin because so much of what happened in the criminal justice system doesn't happen at the federal level, it happens at the state and local level. 
And the answer better not be because we didn't have access to records or information that would have allowed us to identify these killers before they attacked. 
One more time in America, we need to revive the concept of citizenship, where everybody's actions make a huge difference in changing the world. 
Making sure that Muslim Americans don't feel left out or marginalized at the very moment when we need their help. 
And here in Wisconsin, I want to reiterate: We've got to stand up for unions and working people who have done it before the American middle class, and who are being attacked by ideologues, by demagogues. 
And if I'm negotiating in New York or in New Jersey or in California, I have like one bidder. 
And getting this government off your back and out of your way, and letting you succeed. 
We want everyone to rise, and we will make them personally responsible for the help that they get. 
I think that's the conservative consensus pragmatic approach to how to solve this problem. 
The 42-year-old lawyer who is taking Oxycontin and can't get out of bed and support his family I'm pro-life for his life. 
The clean power act, we ought to repeal that and and start over on that. 
And the reason for that is we've got to deal with the elephant in the room, which is the greed, recklessness and illegal behavior on Wall Street. 
No matter how sympathetic we may be to a cause, we cannot violate the Constitution of the United States the way this president now does on a regular basis. 
The first is, if you're an American citizen and you decide to join up with ISIS, we're not going to read you your Miranda rights. 
Because the front line with ISIS isn't just in Iraq and Syria, it's in Kennedy Airport and the Rio Grande. 
ISIS is using American military equipment they've seized in Iraq. 
Because I do believe that we have a history and a tradition, that is part of our values system and we don't want to sacrifice our values. 
You will be the first Americans that get to answer the fundamental question, what comes next for this country after seven disastrous years of Barack Obama? 
The truth is that sentencing for blacks is higher than for whites. 
They are coming from Asia to have babies here, and all of a sudden, we have to take care of the babies for the life of the baby. 
And third, we have 11 million or 12 million people, many of whom have been here for longer than a decade who are already here illegally. 
But the fact of the matter is, look and see what I've done. 
We do what the American people want, to expand Social Security by $1,300 a year for people under $16,000, and we extend the life of Social Security for 58 years. 
When you are faced when you are faced, in the last financial crisis, with banks going under with banks going under, and people, people who put their their life savings in there, you got to deal with it. 
If there is any blame to be spread around, it starts with the prime minister of Iraq, who sectarianized his military, setting Shia against Sunni. 
So I've said, if the big banks don't play by the rules, I will break them up. 
We've got to get rid of Super PACs, we've got to get rid of Citizens' United and what we've got to do is create a political revolution which revitalizes American democracy; which brings millions of young people and working people into the political process. 
We have far less problem with that border than we do with our Southern border, and tremendous amounts you know, I won, I had the privilege of winning by a landslide, by the way, New Hampshire. 
And that child today is a total superstar, a great, great child. 
And so when we talk to our allies and we give them our word, in a Christie administration, they know we're going to keep it. 
That's why I've been leading the fight to stop it. 
I think the issue here is -- and I applaud Secretary Clinton. 
And the one that I've advocated is based on tithing, because I think God is a pretty fair guy. 
It was an investment bank, Lehman Brothers, that contributed to our collapse. 
She wants to put Barack Obama on the Supreme Court of the United States of America. 
As far as the Ukraine is concerned, we have a group of people, and a group of countries, including Germany tremendous economic behemoth why are we always doing the work? 
And what has happened is, I think, the American people have responded to a series of basic truths, and that is that we have today a campaign finance system which is corrupt, which is undermining American democracy, which allows Wall Street and billionaires to pour huge sums of money into the political process to elect the candidates of their choice. 
Now in terms of their really stunning hit piece, what they mentioned is when I was running for senate unlike Hillary Clinton, I don't have masses of money in the bank, hundreds of millions of dollars. 
We have an out-of-control Court, and I give you my word, if I'm elected president, every single Supreme Court justice will faithfully follow the law and will not act like philosopher kings imposing their liberal policies on millions of Americans who need to be trusted to govern ourselves. 
There's a lot of things that we need to reform to bring our defense capabilities into the 21st century and I'm the guy that could do that. 
And I don't take a back seat to anyone when it comes to progressive experience and progressive commitment. 
They went to the vendor and said, "hey, something is wrong," and that was quietly dealt with. 
So the way you do it is you pass a tax plan like the tax plan I've introduced: a simple flat tax, 10 percent for individuals, and a 16 percent business flat tax, you abolish the IRS and here's the critical point, Maria the business flat tax enables us to abolish the corporate income tax, the death tax, the Obamacare taxes, the payroll taxes, and they're border-adjustable, so every export pays no taxes whatsoever. 
Hillary Clinton has never been responsible for those kind of decisions where they were held accountable. 
I just don't believe that this country's days are going to be deeply you know, going down. 
Because...are you talking about the military, Rand? 
We can always be fair to other people, but, you know, it's like when you have a child, you know, you want to be fair to all the children around but you have a special attention for your own child. 
We worked hard to get them established, and to be enforced, and then we talked. 
You know, I find it really quite fascinating some of the president's proclamations. 
And the same goes for overseas, where we have to put together a coalition of Muslim nations. 
And, what we're doing is beginning to work against them. 
And we need to be talking about where does your experience come from? 
He put a 25 million dollar check up from his own pocket to fund that campaign and my wife Heidi and I, we ended up investing everything we owned. 
And we need to divert more people from the criminal justice system into drug courts, into treatment, and recovery. 
I would end those subsidies to pay for defending this nation...
Part of diplomacy, the hard work of diplomacy is trying to extract whatever concessions you can get, and giving something the other side wants. 
Ronald Reagan did it with Tip O'Neil very successfully, you didn't hear so much about executive orders, if you heard about it at all. 
The next president of the United States is going to have to get back in the game. 
And if we're going to ban all Muslims, how are we going to get them to be part of a coalition to destroy ISIS? 
We have to protect our 2nd amendment and you cannot do this and certainly what Barack Obama was doing with the executive order. 
We're going to put in place a strong e-verify system in the workplace, so you can't get a job without proving you are here legally. 
Donald I promise you, Donald, there's nothing about you...that makes anyone nervous. 
You're going to see preexisting conditions and everything else be part of it, but the price will be done, and the insurance companies can pay. 
And I went from an $8 billion hole to a $2 billion surplus. 
Well, John, I think that we have to look at ISIS as the leading threat of an international terror network. 
By Monday, you will have welcomed me into all 99 counties in Iowa. 
Last week in a CNN town hall, the Senator told a questioner that the questioner would spend about $500 dollars in taxes to get about $5,000 dollars in healthcare. 
I've laid out a policy of rebuilding our military. 
Because criminals don't buy their guns from a gun show. 
And in the Holy Land Foundation trial in 2006 in Texas, they had a memorandum, an explanatory memorandum that talked about the fact that Americans would be easy to overcome and to commit civilization jihad because they were going to be trying to protect the rights of the very people who were trying to subvert them. 
But, in a world of so much violence and killing, I just don't believe that government itself should be part of the killing. 
It is not a radical idea to say that a single mom should be earning enough money to take care of her kids. 
They are a sponsor of terrorism around the world and we have to address that. 
And, finally, the working poor, instead of them having come into the emergency rooms where it costs more, where they're sicker and we end up paying, we brought a program in here to make sure that people could get on their feet. 
I'm particularly keen on creating jobs in small business. 
So I think Secretary Clinton and I have a fundamental disagreement. 
But what happens if, God forbid, the next Barack Obama takes over, and the next Nancy Pelosi, and the next Harry Reid and they decide, we're going to raise it to 30 percent, plus we're going to raise the income tax to 30 percent. 
They are the extremists when it comes to the issue of abortion and I can't wait to expose them in a general election. 
My father fled Cuba, and I will fight to defend liberty because my family knows what it's like to lose it.
SANDERS: My father came to this country from Poland at the age of 17 without a nickel in his pocket, which sparked my interest in the need for immigration reform because I know what it's like to be the son of an immigrant. 
Therefore, we need more states, cities, and the federal government to begin to address this so that we don't have this terrible result that Senator Sanders was talking about where we have a huge population in our prisons for nonviolent, low-level offenses that are primarily due to marijuana. 
The government in Saudi Arabia is not a democracy, but we will have to work with them. 
Let's talk about how we do this, not about which bill, which one these guys like more. 
The question was, "Did he fight for his legislation?
When the Obama administration canceled civilian air flights into the national of Israel, when Hamas was raining rockets down on them, I publicly asked, is this an economic boycott against Israel? 
But for six years as governor, Planned Parenthood does not receive that funding from the state budget anymore; over $50 million worth of money that's been saved now, that is not going to do exactly what Hillary Clinton wants to have done and has advocated for. 
We want to destroy ISIS, it has to be in the air and on the ground. 
I've had a lot of folks give me donations from all kinds of backgrounds say, I don't agree with you on everything, but I like what you do. 
And a lot of pediatricians now recognize that, and, I think, are cutting down on the number and the proximity in which those are done, and I think that's appropriate. 
I can tell you, for voters that care about life or marriage or religious liberty or the Second Amendment, they're asking the question: Who do you know, beyond a shadow of a doubt, who do you know will nominate principled constitutionalists to the court? 
We are sending them into fight with their arms tied behind their back. 
The young officer who was killed responding to the Planned Parenthood murders. 
We are actually going to make payments to physicians and to hospitals who actually deliver healthcare with great quality at low prices. 
We need all of them to be part of exactly what the first George Bush put together in the first Gulf War. 
OK. I think President Obama had the right idea, and the bottom line is that of course there have to be conditions. 
Is that one of the skills you get as a United States senator ESP also? 
But, what I added, which I think is the most important thing, so, I said we need to get both sides of this issue to sit down, and talk about it. 
My mother's thinking I might not be able to watch the thing anymore. 
We're going to bring jobs back from Japan, we're going to bring jobs back from China, we're going to bring, frankly, jobs back from Mexico where, as you probably saw, Nabisco is leaving Chicago with one of their biggest plants, and they're moving it to Mexico. 
We can't grow by continuing to take a piece of pie, and dividing it, and redistributing it. 
The Obama White House seems to have in interest, the Justice Department seems to have no interest. 
And we have a president that treats the prime minister of Israel with less respect than what he gives the ayatollah in Iran. 
I think we need to be very careful with tariffs, and here's why. 
So I think while you're talking about the tough decision that President Obama had to make about Osama bin Laden, where I was one of his few advisers, or putting together that coalition to impose sanctions on Iran I think I have a lot of evidence... 
So, I think it's absolutely wrong policy for us to be even imagining we're going end up putting tens of thousands of American troops into Syria and Iraq to fight ISIS. 
Now, on that tariff here's what I'm saying, China they send their goods and we don't tax it they do whatever they want to do. 
I said, "Hank, your guys you come from Goldman Sachs. 
I think that President Obama, Vice President Biden, and the Democratic leadership in the House and the Senate have done a fantastic job. 
And what a lot of people don't know because they were all saying, oh, you're going to take their property. 
It is called the Constitution of the United States. 
I said very clearly on Spanish television, DACA will have to end at some point, and that point is at that time I was not a candidate for president. 
In my view healthcare is a right of all people, not a privilege, and I will fight for that. 
Well, let me say that legal immigration is not an issue I read about in the newspaper. 
There was one area where they had cut a hole in the fence, and to repair it, they put a few strands of barb wire across. 
" I don't mind trading, but I don't want to lose $500 billion. 
With me and the Hispanic community, I think they like me. 
So I sent my top campaign aide down there to talk to the mayor of Flint to see what I could to help. 
I was appointed U.S. attorney by President Bush on September 10th, 2001, and the world changed enormously the next day, and that happened in my state. 
We are bringing out huge turnouts, and creating excitement all over this country. 
Goldman Sachs was one of those companies whose illegal activity helped destroy our economy and ruin the lives of millions of Americans. 
What do you guys say in the Senate when you're talking and debating? 
I spoke to a general two weeks ago, he said he was very up on exactly what we're talking about. 
but almost everybody in Atlantic City is either in trouble or filed for maybe I'll blame Chris. 
In fact, the largest after- tax gains is for the people at the lower end of the tax spectrum under my plan. 
We lose 33,000 people a year already to gun violence, arming more people to do what I think is not the appropriate response to terrorism. 
But when you didn't do that and you ask people to support, you shouldn't cut and run. 
Maria, critically, when it comes to climate change...
And I I'm going to have the very best advisers that I can possibly have, and when it comes to the economy and what was accomplished under my husband's leadership and the '90s especially when it came to raising incomes for everybody and lifting more people out of poverty than at any time in recent history you bet. 
One of the hardest decisions you'll ever make in Congress is when you are asked by the president to authorize the use of force in a conflict, because you are now putting your name, on behalf of the people of your state, behind a military action, where Americans in uniform could lose their life. 
This is about the South Carolina families that need someone to be a commander in chief that can lead. 
Well, we're going to have to redo the way the prescription drug industry does business. 
You know, when I was a kid, we didn't wait on presidents to come to that little blue-collar town and fix things. 
We need a leader that will fix things and have a proven record to do it. 
The No. 1 test for use of military force should be the vital national security interest of the United States. 
Probably the toughest deal of any kind is that particular deal. 
Now, I find it rather amazing, because I happen to believe that Henry Kissinger was one of the most destructive secretaries of state in the modern history of this country. 
You know, under the Constitution, the president has an obligation to, quote, "Take care that the laws be faithfully executed." Federal immigration law provides, if someone is here illegally and is apprehended, they are to be deported. 
So conservatives actually do come out of Manhattan, including William F. Buckley and others, just so you understand. 
You look at our borders, they're like swiss cheese, everybody pours in. 
We both agree that we have to get unaccountable money out of our political system and that we have to do much more to ensure that Wall Street never wrecks main street again. 
What you have to ask yourself is: Who amongst us has the vision for actually making the changes that are going to improve the lives of the American people? 
I'm very proud to have joined with conservatives in both the Senate and the House to reform how we target bad guys. 
It was our money, and we brought them back to tend to the mentally ill. 
And, I'll tell you, as I travel the state, Democrats tell me I didn't vote for you, but you're doing what you said you would do. 
What a President of the United States has got to do and what is his or her major, I think, responsibility is to, a, make certain that we keep our people safe, that we work with allies around the world to protect democratic values, that we do all that we can to create a world of peace and prosperity. 
It is understanding that in the wealthiest country in the history of the world, we should have health care for every man, woman, and child as a right that we should raise the minimum wage to at least $15 an hour; that we have got to create millions of decent- paying jobs by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure. 
We both believe there has to be more money going into the Social Security system. 
And most astonishingly, this agreement trusts the Iranians to inspect themselves. 
Encryption is a major problem, and Congress has got to deal with this and so does the president to keep us safe. 
So nobody gets to redefine things for everybody else and then have them have to conform to it. 
" It wasn't so fashionable to take the oil six months ago. 
I filed which shows that I'm worth over $10 billion. 
Why do we continue to get ripped off by the drug companies who can charge us any prices they want? 
This is incredibly complicated, because we've got Iran as a big player, in addition to Russia. 
So what we're going to have to start doing instead of, you know, picking on this group or this group, is we're going to have to have a major reduction in the regulatory influence that is going on. 
You know, the Security Council finally got around to adopting a resolution. 
And now they see Hillary Clinton proposing a third term of economic policy for our country. 
And, I will always stand with the American people against the bipartisan corruption of Washington.
My standards for more new, good jobs for Americans, for raising wages for Americans. 
And he has been so brutal toward the Sunni within Syria that he created the space that led to the people of Syria themselves to stand up and try to overthrow him. 
We have to get the other 10 percent of the way to 100. 
We got to make sure that we have readiness much higher than we do today. 
It is very clear there will be no progress on this issue in any way, shape or form, until you prove to the people of this country that illegal immigration is under control. 
The most important thing, hope to Americans, unify, lift everyone in America. 
I want you to think about, if this man is the nominee, having the Republican nominee on the stand in court, being cross-examined about whether he committed fraud. 
" There's a reason Harry Reid thinks he's the best Republican up here. 
We all agree on that, but it's not going to be solved with magic pixie dust. 
And it was widows and orphans, by the way, and we now know from watching the San Bernardino attack that women can commit heinous, heinous acts against humanity just the same as men can do it. 
You know, the people that get forgotten in this debate over immigration are the hardworking men and women of this country our millions of Americans who are losing their jobs. 
We will invest in education, and jobs for our kids, not incarceration and more jails. 
Never believed it would happen that we have raised 3.5 million individual contributions, averaging $27 dollars a piece. 
That requires an understanding and appreciation of American leadership in the world. 
Well, first of all, I think amnesty is the forgiveness of a wrongdoing without consequence and that I've never supported that. 
Because they devalue their currency they devalue their currencies...that makes it well, you don't know a thing about business. 
There is no president, in my view, not Hillary Clinton, not Bernie Sanders, who has the capability or the power to take on Wall Street, large campaign donors, the corporate media, the big money interests in this country alone. 
And if you're going to leave this to Hillary Clinton, the person who gave us this foreign policy, the architect of it, and you're going to give her another four years, that's why I'm speaking out as strongly as I am about that. 
Now, you can say that's a tax on the middle class. 
All of the things that I've been talking about, whether it's trade, whether it's building up our depleted military, whether it's taking care of our vets, whether it's getting rid of Common Core, which is a disaster, or knocking out Obamacare and coming up with something so much better, I will get it done. 
That I serve as Governor of the state of Florida where we cut taxes and reduced government. 
The most exceptional country that the world has ever known. 
Maria Maria, what you were talking about just now is called corporate inversion. 
How are we going to get health care for everybody... 
The jobs that once sustained our middle class, they either don't pay enough or they are gone, and we need someone that understands that as our nominee. 
The next Republican nominee needs to be able to make that case against Hillary. 
So I think this is an election where we have to pull young people and older people together to have a strategy about how we're going to encourage even more American's to vote because it absolutely clear to me...
You know, I've been talking about Libya for quite a long time. 
Campaigning in places to give people hope that their life is better because too many people are suffering today in America. 
In essence, it couldn't pass in the House, it will never pass in the United States until we secure the border, and it is not the way we're going to do when I'm president. 
But you know what, you can make a middle class wage, you have decent health care, decent benefits. 
And if we do, we will not just save the American dream. 
Executive power, as we all know, has been the preferred vehicle of President Obama, abusing his authority, abusing his constitutional authority. 
You know, on my very first visit to New Hampshire in this campaign, I was in Keene, and I was asked, "what are you going to do about the heroin epidemic?" 
I was in Washington, Iowa, about three months ago talking about how bad Washington, D.C., is. 
And they're giving up on the political process because they understand the economy is rigged. 
You know, the largest retailer in the country and the world today, Amazon, doesn't even own a single store? 
The World Trade Center came down during the reign of George Bush. 
I think it's when we send a signal of weakness, when we are negotiating to release people that committed crimes in our country for people that didn't commit crimes that are held hostage in Iran. 
And maybe the back door is the wrong door, and I understand what Apple and others are saying about that. 
Because as conservatives, as Republicans, we keep winning elections. 
And, if we find out that they may be developing a nuclear weapon, than the military option is on the table. 
As president, I will support law enforcement and we'll stop radical terrorist attacks in this country by supporting our intelligence community and law enforcement community. 
Well, you know, when I wasn't introduced No. 2, as was the plan, I thought maybe he thought I already had dropped out. 
Nobody who cares about judges would contribute to John Kerry, Hillary Clinton, Chuck Schumer and Harry Reid. 
Look, here's the deal, in this particular case, the FBI made a mistake. 
The problem is because of political correctness, the Obama administration, like a lot of folks here, want to search everyone's cell phones and e-mails and not focus on the bad guys. 
And I'll tell you what Hillary Clinton has said: Hillary Clinton says she agrees with the dissenters the Supreme Court dissenters in the Heller case. 
I have long supported the proposition that we should lift the cap on taxable income coming into the Social Security Trust Fund, starting at $250,000. 
Of course, the president, by the way, has every right to nominate Supreme Court justices. 
So I understand the concerns of all the folks across this country, some of whom have trouble, you know, making ends meet. 
If you get caught abusing this program, you should never be able to use it again. 
After a migratory crisis on the border with minors coming over that you're seeing start up again now, after all these executive orders the President has issued. 
Well I think a lot of people are understandably reacting out of fear and anxiety about what they're seeing. 
Well, I'm very glad that Ted mentioned Arizona because probably the toughest man on borders is Sheriff Joe Arpaio, and two days ago he totally endorsed me, so, thank you. 
And when you led the charge with the Gang of Eight, I supported it because you asked me to. 
Does Ted Cruz rule out ever legalizing people that are in this country now? 
We thought that was gone, we thought those lines were going to be gone, so something happened at the last moment where Obamacare got approved, and all of that was thrown out the window. 
Furthermore, in a competitive global economy, it is imperative that we have the best educated workforce in the world. 
More and more military personnel are leaving becoming veterans, and the waiting list grows. 
I advocated arming the moderate opposition back in the day when I was still secretary of State, because I worried we would end up exactly where we are now. 
Each and every one of the people in this country who's watching tonight, lift everybody, unite everybody and build a stronger United States of America again. 
You know, we probably have to figure out a way to make sure that we keep America safe. 
But the point about foreign policy is not just to know that you can overthrow a terrible dictator, it's to understand what happens the day after. 
Now I think an area in kind of a vague way, or not so vague, where Secretary Clinton and I disagree is the area of regime change. 
I don't think taxpayers should be paying to send Donald Trump's kids to college. 
Well, I think the thing about the flat tax, I know it very well. 
But experience is not the only point, judgment is. 
They both pushed him, he twice approved Obamacare. 
They are relevant if we want to destroy ISIS. If we want to destroy radical Islamic terrors, we can't disassociate ourselves from peace loving Muslims. 
And places like Seattle, like Los Angeles, like New York City, they can go higher. 
And I am asking the Congress, which represents the people, to declare a war on ISIS so that we can begin the process of excising that cancer and begin the healing process, and bring peace, prosperity, and safety back to America. 
We already mentioned that plan, I know what that is, but what else is part of your plan...
But with the secretary neglected to mention, not just the 29 million still have no health insurance, that even more are underinsured with huge copayments and deductibles. 
And I'm not saying they were good because they were bad, they were really bad, but we don't know what we're getting. 
John, do you want me to answer or do you want to answer? 
We like to send it for some strange reason through Baghdad, and then they only get a tenth of it. 
You would carpet bomb where ISIS is, not a city, but the location of the troops. 
" We need to adopt that as citizens and rebuild and reinspire our country. 
I will not shock anybody to suggest that in politics there is occasionally a little bit of hypocrisy. 
I'm running for president because I want a new foreign policy; one that takes on Isis, one that destroys ISIS, but one that does not get us involved in perpetual warfare in the quagmire of the Middle East but rather works around a major coalition of wealthy and powerful nations supporting Muslim troops on the ground. 
I know for a fact how difficult it is to raise children, how expensive it's become for working families. 
And I just want to say, you know, last week we released our tax plan. 
Well, with respect to Syria, I really do appreciate the efforts that Secretary Kerry has made. 
I want every kid in this country who has the ability to be able to go to a public college, or university, tuition free. 
If you're a Christian, increasingly in Lebanon, or Iraq, or Syria, you're going to be beheaded. 
When we talk about public education, it can no longer be K through 12th grade. 
And the terrorists that attacked us in San Bernardino was an American citizen, born and raised in this country. 
Probably in terms of the applying for the job of president, a weakness would be not really seeing myself in that position until hundreds of thousands of people began to tell me that I needed to do it. 
I mean, that is not, in my opinion, the kind of values that we believe in. 
The Afghan army is taking heavy losses defending Afghan territory. 
That's exactly the right and, that's what I did with the President, so he and I are on the very same page. 
Well, you know, David, the assessment the voters are making here in New Hampshire and across the country is they are evaluating each and every one of us. 
The isolationist is the one who wants to continue to follow a foreign policy that has fewer democracies today than when Barack Obama came into office around the world. 
There are several deal-makers on this stage but there is only one person who has consistently stood up to both parties, fighting for the American people against the Washington deals. 
We pay more business tax, we pay more personal tax. 
Why not go to Congress and in a bipartisan way, begin to deal with the process of mental health issues so that people that are spiraling out of control because of mental health challenges don't have access to guns. 
We'll tax it, that one time, at 8.75 percent, because 35 percent of zero is zero, but 8.75 percent of $2 trillion is a lot of money. 
We have to reverse those cuts, in addition to the cuts to our Navy and in addition to the cuts to our Army, as well. 
And in particular, what it did is the prior program only covered a relatively narrow slice of phone calls. 
" I mean, that's on the record and people can look it up right now online. 
Secondly, I don't believe in free tuition for everybody. 
Everywhere I go to campaign, I'm meeting families who are affected by the drug problem that mostly is opioids and heroin now, and lives are being lost and children are being orphaned. 
And I will go back and say again, AIG was not a big bank. 
Now, I think the voters of Texas, the voters across Super Tuesday are assessing everyone standing on this this stage. 
And in addition to that, I'll tell you, one of the biggest things I think has to be done and I would do it as president the Pentagon has got to work with the returning soldier, sailor, along with the family, and we they're the most valuable employees in the country. 
You're an American, as is everybody else on this stage, and I would suggest we focus on who's best prepared to be commander- in-chief, because that's the most important question facing the country. 
These folks, CNBC, they had it down at three, three and a half hours. 
I also said that we should take increased numbers of refugees. 
Second of all, and the reason I believe in a health care for all program, we need to understand that addiction is a disease, not a criminal activity. 
We have to keep our communities and our country safe. 
If during if during...because if during well, I'll tell you what (ph). 
And I think there would have been a positive response to that. 
He says he's not going to take sides in the Palestinians versus Israel. 
And John Kerry has been the most anti-Israel secretary of State this country has ever seen. 
So here's a promise that I make and I mentioned a moment ago how corrupt the system is Goldman Sachs, paying a $5 billion fine, gives this country, in recent history, a Republican secretary of treasury, a Democratic secretary of treasury. 
For a start, they're going to start to pay their fair share of taxes. 
This is about DACA. DACA is an executive order that is unconstitutional. 
And Senator Paul knows that that's simply not the truth. 
Our job, together, is to end a rigged economy, create an economy that works for all, and absolutely overturn Citizens United. 
But, of course, international terrorism is a major issue that we have got to address today. 
It became popular after the attack in Paris, and San Bernardino. 
I've been fortunate enough to travel to 58 different countries and I thank God everyday that I was born in this country. 
And, that will get to the nub of opportunity for our children, and an ability to see wages rise. 
We now have some good models about how better to provide employment, housing and education. 
Two former governors, the current governor, the current other senator. 
Seventy percent of our population lives by costly. 
We elected a president that doesn't believe in the Constitution. 
We need to take a very hard look at our...criminal justice system, investing in jobs, and education not in jails and incarceration . 
And I will pay for it by, yes, taxing the wealthy more, closing corporate loopholes, deductions, and other kinds of favorable treatment. 
I want to build on the progress we've made; got from 90 percent coverage to 100 percent coverage. 
I'm a very militaristic person, but you have to know when to use the military. 
He says both of you support allowing undocumented immigrants legal status here in the United States after a background check, paying a fine, and paying taxes. 
I am convinced every individual standing on this stage, would make a much better commander-in-chief than Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders. 
We cannot elect somebody that doesn't know how to do the job. 
And I will have a plan in the first 100 days to get it done and get this issue behind us. 
But all of my career, you know, having been raised in by a mailman father whose father was a coal miner, who died of black lung and was losing his eyesight; or a mother whose mother could barely speak English. 
We can do it for $10 billion to $12 billion, and it's a real wall. 
This is an incredibly complicated region of the world. 
And the notion of neutrality is based upon the left buying into this moral relativism that is often pitched in the media. 
That can do more damage to our democracy than any...
And we should back up the recent donors conference to make sure we have made our contribution to try to deal with the enormous cost that these refugees are posing to Turkey and to members of the E.U. in particular. 
Now, as far as the renewable fuel standard is concerned, certain promises were made, certain government contracts were issued which extend all the way into the year 2022, and I believe that it's probably unfair to withdraw the rug because people have invested money. 
And I also want to recognize the people in that church that showed the grace of God and the grace of forgiveness and the mercy that they showed. 
If it is approved, it will just be more bad trade deals, more loss of jobs for our country. 
If we do not know who you are, and we do not know why you are coming when I am president, you are not getting into the United States of America. 
That is not the reason that I have gotten into this thing. 
When you're responsible for protecting the lives of the American people, then what you need to do 
The insurance companies are getting rich on Obamacare. 
And she and I looked at the same evidence coming from the Bush administration regarding Iraq. 
Well, Chris, you are exactly right that I am not the candidate of career politicians in Washington. 
I don't at this point in terms of changing the incentives for investment and risk-taking. 
But today in America, we are the only major country on earth that doesn't guarantee health care to all people, that doesn't guarantee paid family and medical leave. 
The fact is, there's a number of things that the next president is going to have to do to clean up this mess. 
What we should do, and one of the things we should do is not only talk the talk, but walk the walk. 
I actually believe first of all, this is their money. 
We feel like we're being left behind and left out. 
We elected a president that is weakening America on the global stage. 
I have been proud and privileged to serve as first lady, as a senator from New York, and as secretary of state. 
I think it's fair to say, Assad has killed, by last count, about 250,000 Syrians. 
And we had the Arabs standing by our side saying, "We want you to help us deal with Gadhafi.
And so I don't back away from that position for a minute. 
And I'll tell you, Hugh you know, it's interesting now that Donald promises that he will appoint justices who who will defend religious liberty, but this is a man who, for 40 years, has given money to Jimmy Carter, to Joe Biden, to Hillary Clinton, to Chuck Schumer, to Harry Reid. 
I have a five point economic plan, because this inequality challenge we face, we have faced it at other points. 
Well, I think it's perfectly fair to say that we invested quite a bit in development aid. 
But you know, we don't want to put everybody in the same category. 
So I certainly support it, I would certainly love it, but all parties have to be part of it. 
We can take many of those same procedures, we can apply it to Medicare. 
I humbly ask for your vote, whenever you're gonna get to vote, whenever the primary is. 
And I find it amazing that your answer to Hugh and to the American people is, on religious liberty, you can't have one of the these crazy zealots that actually believes in it. 
Well, as someone who as someone who has a little bit of experience standing up to the health insurance industry, that spent, you know many, many millions of dollars attacking me, and probably will so again, because of what I believe we can do building on the Affordable Care Act, I think it's important to point out that there are a lot of reasons we have the health care system we have today. 
Well, I was pleased that NATO announced just this week that they're going to start doing patrols in the Mediterranean, in the Aegean, to try to interdict the smugglers, to try to prevent the kind of tragedies that we have seen all too often, also to try to prevent more refugees from coming to the European Union. 
They're going to end up in the productive economy, which is where we want them. 
I think we're on the verge of the greatest time, and I want to fix the things to let people rise up. 
Hopefully, and you know, one can't predict the future, that maybe our training and their fighting capabilities are improving and we are going to make some progress in destroying ISIS. 
And all over New Hampshire, I met grandmothers who are raising children because they lost the father or the mother to an overdose. 
Let me tell you, if we don't get this election right, there may be no turning back for America. 
I have voted not to give gun makers and sellers immunity. 
That when you look around the world, you see every other major country providing health care to all people as a right, except the United States. 
First of all, I have to say, as a businessman, I get along with everybody. 
But the position you've taken is an anti-Israel position. 
The majority of people in American actually have values and principles and they believe in the very things that made America great. 
And through regulatory reform, we will repeal every word of Obamacare. 
So whoever is part of the family of a president has an extraordinary privilege of not only having a front row seat on history but making her or maybe his contribution. 
In the state of Florida, as speaker of the house, he supported in-state tuition for illegal immigrants. 
And then truly this new century can be a new American century. 
But we would be making a grave mistake to turn our backs on what built the greatest middle class in the history...of the world. 
And so, when we look at these complex problems, I wish it could be either/or. 
It's kind of ridiculous all the other things we talk about. 
And, the other part of that legislation said that if a veteran is living more than 40 miles away from a V.A. facility, that veteran could get health care from the community health center, or the private sector. 
The first is conservatism is about limited government, especially at the federal level. 
You know, there is a reason why these people are putting huge amounts of money into our political system. 
When I was running for senate just about every lobbyist, just about all of the establishment opposed me in the senate race in Texas and my opponent in that race was worth over 200 million dollars. 
" Here's why, the president of the United States and both his attorney's general, they give the benefit of the doubt to the criminal, not to the police officers. 
And, you know, I don't know all the details of what Rick Snyder has done. 
Here is the major issue when we talk about Wall Street. 
I'm very proud that NARAL endorsed me because when it comes to it we need a leader on women's issues. 
So the indignation that you carry on, some of the stuff, you have to also own then. 
Above 10 percent, everyone pays the same simple, flat 10 percent income rate. 
You get the Congress, you get the Senate, you get together, you do legislation. 
This nation is the most powerful military in the world. 
Tom Harkin, a very good friend of Hillary Clinton's and mine, one of the leading labor advocates, also voted against that. 
And now mom and dad can stay in their own home, rather than being forced into a nursing home. 
They came to America because it was the only place where people like them could have a chance. 
Everybody on this stage is better than Hillary Clinton. 
High growth is the path to lower carbon, and more jobs. 
But now, a growing number of Americans feel out of place in their own country. 
That means pass the Paycheck Fairness Act so we have transparency about how much people are making. 
Millions of legal immigrants who are losing their jobs are seeing their wages driven down. 
And we have to restore the sense that the "Amiracle" will apply to you. 
No, because if you look at the quote, and it's very specific. 
And as governor of Ohio, we went from 350,000 lost jobs to a gain of 347,000 jobs. 
You know, the question you asked really I think is the most important question any of us can have face, which is, how do we get the economy growing? 
Barack Obama believes that America is a arrogant global power that needs to be cut down to size. 
The simple fact is that the plane that's being build here is being sold to China. 
The biggest problem The biggest problem, I'll have you know...
But, I must also tell you, a long time reformer of the Pentagon, we must reform that building. 
This is the most generous country in the world when it comes to immigration. 
And this is the responsibility of Congress to come back and correct what the Supreme Court has done. 
If you look at the history of America, there are three levers that government has had to facilitate economic growth. 
It certainly didn't stop me from taking on the drug companies and the insurance companies. 
And we will always celebrate legal immigration like Dulce's great story. 
Every war we have ever been involved in has had a propaganda informational aspect to it. 
You know, the conservative movement is all about opportunity. 
I think, and this is not easy, but I think we need to make wage a major effort, to come together as a country and end institutional racism. 
You know, this week I had the great pleasure of having my kids join me on the campaign trail. 
To do what we've done in Ohio, you have to plead with people, then you go back down to Washington and do the same thing. 
For example, do I think that a gun shop in the state of Vermont that sells legally a gun to somebody, and that somebody goes out and does something crazy, that that gun shop owner should be held responsible? 
First, rather than expand benefits for everyone, I do want to take care of low-income seniors who worked at low-wage jobs. 
I ask for your support to build, together, a safer and stronger America.
But we have to who would be I just can't imagine somebody booing. 
Anyone who is paying attention to what Khamenei says knows that they will not comply. 
Look, we have a great president here, George Bush, the 41st president of the United States. 
Only three people were fired after waiting lists were dropped where veterans didn't get care and people died. 
Your brother and your brother's administration gave us Barack Obama, because it was such a disaster, those last three months, that Abraham Lincoln couldn't have been elected. 
And I got to tell you, my father carried mail on his back. 
Well, I understand why they feel that way, because this president hasn't kept us safe. 
I'm going to prioritize those recipients who need the most help first. 
Those three things would be the first and foremost things that we need to do in 2017. 
I have spent my entire life, starting from clerking for Chief Justice William Rehnquist on the United States Supreme Court, one of the most principled jurists. 
And the fact that Donald Trump would write him a check and support him against George W. Bush shows exceptionally poor foreign policy judgment. 
So you know, you shouldn't misrepresent how well you're doing with the polls. 
Well, Maria, I'm glad to have heard from you in the summary of that question about what's going on in the world. 
And for our community leaders, many of them think the system not only works not only doesn't work for them, but it works against them. 
And we need someone who will take on Hillary Clinton in November. 
And my plan, Paul Krugman, Barney Frank, a lot of experts who understand what the new challenges might be, have said I am exactly on point, and the Wall Street guys actually know that. 
But I did ask for the resignation of Governor Snyder because his irresponsibility was so outrageous. 
And let me just finish, because I don't get to talk that much. 
And you're right, I have missed some votes, and I'll tell you why, Mr. Trump. 
And certainly some of the policies, some of the monetary and Fed policies that we're using makes it very easy for them, makes it very easy for the big corporations, quite frankly, at these very low interest rates to buy back their stock and to drive the price of that up artificially. 
I've learned from him that what we need to achieve is peace through strength, which means we need to rebuild the military. 
If any of you here ever get a hospital bill, it's easier to interpret the Dead Sea scrolls than to understand your hospital bill. 
What we should do is to be investing in all types of energy, John, all types of energy. 
You said you're going to cut funding for women's health. 
Senator Cruz has called your immigration plan amnesty, and has an add out there comparing it to President Obama's. 
I have created tens of thousands of jobs, and I'll be creating many millions of jobs if I'm given if I'm given the opportunity to be president. 
Yes, I believe that as a result of the illegal behavior on Wall Street, that they are a Wall Street that drove this country into the worst economic downturn since the Great Recession Great Depression. 
But I think when Russians get killed in Syria and when he gets bogged down, I think the Russian people are going to give him a message that maybe they should come home, maybe they should start working with the United States to rectify the situation now. 
It's like a tariff, but here's the difference: if we impose a tariff, China responds. 
When you actually have to be responsible for doing this, you can do it, and we did it, for seven years in my office, respecting civil liberties and protecting the homeland. 
But, I support that, and obviously now that that is the case I do believe that Selective Service should be opened up for both men and women in case a Draft is ever instituted. 
And the U.S. chamber of commerce, which hardly ever says nice things about Democratic governors anywhere, named our state number one for innovation and entrepreneurship. 
I think one of the heroes in a real quagmire out there, in a dangerous and difficult world; one of the heroes who we should recognize in the Middle East is King Abdullah II of Jordan. 
Barack Obama views America as this arrogant global power that needed to be cut down to size. 
All of the talk that we're seeing here most of which I agree on, frankly requires a much stronger military. 
I look out here, I see a lot of my friends from the Congress. 
And it was with us for months, the smell, the air. 
For every issue for America, their answer is a new tax on someone, and a new government program. 
There is no question that a lot of these problems that we have been talking about in terms of the international situation is because we are weak. 
And he gave his heart to Jesus and it turned him around. 
That is an international embarrassment that we do not provide family paid family and medical leave. 
Are they going to stand with us against this kind of jihadi radicalism or not? 
First of all, we should have been supporting the rebels long ago. 
It is fair to say, Senator, that in your definition, as you being the self-proclaimed gatekeeper for progressivism, I don't know anyone else who fits that definition, but I know a lot of really hard fighting progressives in the Democratic party who have stood up time, and time again against special interests, against the powerful on behalf of those who are left behind and left out. 
Secretary Clinton, I don't have a super PAC. I don't get any money from Wall Street. 
This president and, by the way, Secretary Clinton, who called Assad a reformer she called Assad a reformer. 
The cybersecurity challenges that we face, this administration failed us completely, completely. 
I could settle it right now for very little money, but I don't want to do it out of principle. 
Regarding economic security, we need to take power and money away from Washington D.C. and empower American families so that they can rise up again. 
The first thing that we need to do is to stop the craziness of the sequester. 
But with all of the problems this is not an act of love. 
I run for president because I believe that we can't just save the American dream; we can expand it to reach more people and change more lives than ever before. 
We're worried the future of our children and we've have been burned over and over again. 
The economy does better when you have a Democrat in the White House and that's why we need to have a Democrat in the White House in January 2017. 
Well, you know, when I say tithing, I'm talking about the concept of proportionality. 
That's why they have to take so much of our taxes. 
That's why we embraced individual liberty, and we became the freest people ever, and the result was the American miracle. 
And they would, despite all their tough talk about terrorism, continue to let people who are on the no-fly list buy guns. 
You know, I sat down with the senior leadership of John Deere. 
With grandiose language, the president talks about red lines and nothing to follow it up; talks about ISIS being the JV team, they form a caliphate the size of Indiana with 35 (thousand) to 40,000 battle-tested terrorists. 
They're looking they're recruiting people that enter this country as doctors and engineers and even fiances. 
I don't remember you ever complaining about John McCain's vote record. 
I just will tell you that, you know, Jeb made the statement. 
And here's an area where Secretary Clinton and I believe we have a difference. 
When markets changed, when things turned, I heard Governor Pataki, who, by the way, was a failed governor in New York, a very seriously failed he wouldn't be elected dog catcher right now. 
And, it was made for we the people, we are the ones who decide who we are, and we should never give away the values and principles that made America into a great nation for the sake of political correctness.
Well, I'm kind of confused because he was the sponsor of the Gang of Eight bill that did require a bunch of thresholds but ultimately allowed for citizenship over an extended period of time. 
And, where we are failing abysmally is in the very high rate of recidivism we see. 
We're getting rid of we're going to get rid of so many different things. 
So I believe as president I will look very carefully about unintended consequences. 
I have said to the people if they want me to do this, please get involved. 
I mean, for the last six months I've been a politician. 
That will never happen when I am president of the United States. 
But he taught me that in Spanish, because it was the language he was most comfortable in. 
Their compliance costs because of Dodd-Frank went from $100,000 to $600,000 in a two-year period. 
He does not believe it, and the net result is that we have a caliphate the size of Indiana that gains energy each and everyday to recruit Americans in our own country, and the threat to the homeland relates to the fact that we have not dealt with this threat of terror in the Middle East. 
We have a Holocaust memorial on our state house grounds. 
Children are going to suffer and families' hearts are going to be broken that their kids won't be able to get a job in the 21st Century. 
And I would say if I might, Madam Secretaryand you can correct me if I'm wrong. 
If you can encrypt messages, ISIS can, over these platforms, and we have no ability to have a cooperative relationship 
" They reported that on television, CNN's political anchors, Jake Tapper and Dana Bash and Wolf Blitzer, said it was highly unusual and highly significant. 
And I want us to be absolutely clear about making sure the insurance companies in the private employer policy arena as well as in the Affordable Care exchanges are properly regulated so that we are not being gamed. 
Our greatest days lie ahead if we are willing to do what it takes now. 
They can't deal with all they cannot hire the fanciest law firm in Washington or the best lobbying firm to deal with all these regulations. 
And what I believe right now, and I believe this is terribly important, is the United States of America cannot succeed, or be thought of as the policeman of the world, that when there's an international crisis all over the world, in France and in the U.K. 
And if elected, not only do I hope to bring forth a major change in national priorities, but let me be frank, I do want to see major changes in the Democratic Party. 
It is disgraceful, and in a Christie administration, they would know much, much better than to do that. 
The shame is that you would actually criticize somebody for showing up to work, plowing the streets, getting the trains running back on time when you've never been responsible for that in your entire life. 
And it is not going to get done if we just embed a few people. 
If you listen to him, and you listen to some of the folks that I've been listening to, that's why we've been in the Middle East for 15 years, and we haven't won anything. 
If there's nothing, release them tomorrow. ...is because he's afraid that he will get hit. 
People who did ice fishing, where their ice is no longer there on the lake understand what's going on. 
Secondly, we've got to go after everything from North Africa to South Asia and beyond. 
Yes, you've hired a thousand from another country...
When I am president, I will work consistently every single day to keep this country safe, not call Edward Snowden, as you did, a great public servant. 
Let me begin by saying this: I'm not new to the political process; I was making a contribution as the speaker of the third largest and most diverse state in the country well before I even got into the Senate. 
And the reason was because we had an atmosphere that encouraged entrepreneurial risk- taking and capital investment. 
One thing we will say and I would like to get back to the Iran situation. 
I want to raise incomes, not taxes, and I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that the wealthy pay for debt free tuition, for child care, for paid family leave. 
So we have no disagreement about the need to buttress Social Security, get more revenue into the program. 
And you know what I think they get out of me is my sense of what they get out of me, and it's embarrassment about campaigns, you brag about yourself. 
We can save and preserve and strengthen Social Security by making no changes for seniors, but for younger workers gradually increasing the retirement age, changing the rate of growth so that it matches inflation, and critically allowing younger workers to keep a portion of our tax payments in a personal account that we own, we control them, we can pass on to our kids. 
First, to go after them and deprive them of the territory they occupy now in both Syria and Iraq. 
All these lobbyists you keep talking about, they put a bailout fund in the law that would allow public money to be used, taxpayer money, to bail out companies when they lost money. 
So for example, in Libya, both of them agreed with the Obama/Clinton policy of toppling the government in Libya. 
The World Trade Center came down during your brother's reign, remember that. 
I first met him when we got an honorary degree together a long time ago. 
As a member of the Health Education Committee that helped write the Affordable Care Act, much of what Secretary Clinton said about what we have done, among other things, ending the obscenity of this pre-existing situation is a step forward. 
" We are going to be a country that says, "The constitution and the rights that it talks about do not come from our president, they come from our creator.
I certainly agree with FDR for all the reasons Senator Sanders said. 
And I tell you, if I'm elected president, we will secure the border. 
And luckily I'm not being audited this year, or last year, for that matter. 
If we don't have borders, if we don't have strength, we don't have a country. 
Voter Violation," and then it graded you and it scared the hell out of people, and it said the only way you clear up the violation, essentially, is to go and vote for Ted Cruz. 
But I'll build the mill arbitrary stronger, bigger, better than anybody up here, and nobody is going to mess with us. 
And let's dispel once and for all with this fiction that Barack Obama doesn't know what he's doing. 
And yet they continue to debate about this bill and in the subcommittee and what nobody in America cares about that. 
This is the fantasy that I talked about in the beginning. 
I would certainly be open to closing areas where we are at war with somebody. 
But on the question of unlocking this cell phone of a terrorist, we should enforce the court order and find out everyone that terrorist at San Bernardino talked to on the phone, texted with, e-mailed. 
Now, Donald...on the issue on the issue of citizenship, Donald...on the issue of citizenship, Donald, I'm not going to use your mother's birth against you. 
They went home and they wanted to watch their boyfriends on television. 
You make these decisions based upon the symptoms, the medicine, and the law. 
Because of what I believe in what I was just saying. 
I think allowing terrorist to get away with things is bad for America. 
But you will not find that I ever changed a view or a vote because of any donation that I ever received. 
We have to deal with the caliphate, with building a Sunni army there, but we also have to deal with it in Libya. 
I just want to say and I'm a big fan of the governor, but they also struck oil, OK, so that helped Iowa a lot. 
There's no nation on earth that comes close to that number. 
Well, listen Donald knows that it was George W. Bush who appointed John Roberts. 
So, again I think it's important that, look, I understand Senator Sanders really trying to distinguish himself. 
All I'm saying is our next president has to be someone that undoes the damage Barack Obama has done to this country. 
We have to start getting reimbursed for taking care of the military services for all of these countries. 
The average middle-class family will be saving thousands of dollars a year. 
But, here's the bigger problem with all this, we're not interrogating anybody right now. 
Honest to goodness, this isthis just beggars the imagination. 
The values in our community are faith, family, patriotism. 
I have no clue whether the federal government is the proper place, my instinct is to say, hell no, just about everything about the federal government. 
By the way, I agree with with what Chris is saying, but, I will say this. 
I'll tell you this, the number one job of the president of the United States is to protect the safety and security of the American people. 
We have seniors out there who are scared to death because this Congress this one that we have right now, just stole $150 billion from the Social Security retirement fund to give it to the Social Security disability fund. 
We now treat them in the prisons, release them in the community and the recidivism rate is 10 percent and everybody across this country knows that the tsunami of drugs is -- is threatening their very families. 
Because this administration has not had a strong and firm foreign policy, we are going to inherit one of us here is going to inherit a total mess...
And it's important that people really look hard at what the threats and dangers we face are, and who is best prepared for dealing with them. 
Let me let me answer your question on the Sun-Sentinel editorial today. 
He said his bill couldn't pass on the gang of eight. 
That's what we need in Washington, D.C. We need someone with a servant's heart that has a backbone, that isn't going to focus on polls and focus groups. 
Because his entire life, he support liberals from Jimmy Carter, to Hillary Clinton, to John Kerry. 
And it remind us of this, how important this election is. 
You know, it is difficult finding intelligence that is actionable in a lot of these places, but we have to keep trying. 
And, that requires a very clear, agenda for retraining police officers, looking at ways to end racial profiling, finding more ways to really bring the disparities that stalk our country into high relief. 
You're losing so badly you I want to...I you don't know what's happening. 
But you've never stood on this debate stage and says it works great in Canada and Scotland and we should do it here. 
And I will do my very best to make sure that that doesn't happen. 
And then in 2005, in one room was John Roberts, in another room was my former boss, Mike Luttig, the rock ribbed (ph) conservative on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals...George W. Bush appointed John Roberts, and let me give you the consequences of that. 
But I have to add if there's going to be a security review about me, there's going to have to be security reviews about a lot of other people, including Republican office holders, because we've got this absurd situation of retroactive classifications. 
Senator Sanders, from a debate in 2008, quote what I said. 
He will also, then, turn to other countries in the region and say, "America is no longer a reliable ally, Egypt. 
You know, we have the purveyors of hatred who take every single incident between people of two races and try to make a race war out of it, and drive wedges into people. 
And the net result is the middle class has $2,300 less in their pockets than the day that Barack Obama got elected president. 
Three times he voted against the Defense Authorization Act, which is a bill that funds the troops. 
I will be on Israel's side every single day because they are the only pro-American, free enterprise democracy in the entire Middle East. 
And, there is no one on this stage better prepared to prosecute the case against Hillary Clinton than I am. 
So actually, the opportunity is there, because of the threat to all of these countries, to bring all of us together and say there is something more important than money. 
Then you have to get rid of Larry Kudlow, who sits on your panel, who's a great guy, who came out the other day and said, I love Trump's tax plan. 
I think of Jonathan (ph) and Reagan Love (ph), who are supporters of mine. 
Well, Dana, the premise of your question is not accurate. 
If he builds the wall the way he built Trump Towers, he'll be using illegal immigrant labor to do it. 
And we have enemies who are obtaining nuclear weapons that they can explode in our exoatmosphere and destroy our electric grid. 
And the people in San Bernardino were communicating with people who the FBI had been watching. 
Well, I think you ask a very important question, because the issue here the next president of the United States has to fill this vacancy. 
and I have a permit, which is very unusual in New York a permit to carry. 
Because I vetoed 2,500 separate line-items in the budget. 
But in order to bring about the changes that we need, we need a political revolution. 
But I will tell you, I am totally committed to the Republican Party. 
I want to move forward on paid family leave, on early childhood education, I want us to do more for small businesses. 
Starts at the 150 percent poverty level, but even the people below that have to pay something, because everybody has to have skin in the game, and the millions of people can't, you know, talk about what other people have to pay and have no skin in the game. 
The fact is, the reason why...the fact is the fact is the reason why that no one wants to answer entitlements up here is because it's hard. 
They should have made it more open ended for the next president. 
And beyond that, I would say we must win the information war against ISIS. 
I want us to keep working on the Affordable Care Act, to get not only to 100 percent coverage, but bring down the costs of prescription drugs and out-of-pocket costs. 
Well, first of all, please go to my website, bencarson.com, and read my immigration policy, O.K.? 
They could stop all of this illegal trade if they wanted to immediately. 
We don't want to make it seem as though we are turning into a nation of fear instead of a nation of resolve. 
I will make sure that we fire the sheer incompetence inside the Department of Veterans Affairs and then we'll give veterans a choice card so that they don't have to travel hours and hours to get care if they want to go to their private provider. 
I'm going to look for ways to try to make sure it's solvent into the future. 
And they even recruit Americans using social media to try to attack us here at home. 
Hedge fund billionaires, Karl Rove, another billionaire, jumped in. 
And for years, he's had to go to get these dental claims. 
But probably that was the most challenging because there was no certainty attached to it. 
If the economy of Puerto Rico does not grow they will never generate the revenue to pay this debt, or the billions of dollars in unfunded liabilities that they have on their books of promises they've made to future generations to make payments. 
In my administration, we will help to make sure we bring people together in the Middle East, and we will fight ISIS and defeat them. 
We cannot let Hillary Clinton, who is the worst secretary of state in the history of our country, win this election. 
They can solve the problem of North Korea if they wanted to but they taunt us. 
So I have a long history of getting things done, rooted in the same values...
Somebody who, yes, votes right, but much more than that, leads the efforts to protect the hard-fought gains that women have made, that, make no mistake about it, are under tremendous attack, not just by the Republican presidential candidates but by a whole national effort to try to set back women's rights. 
But but unfortunately, John's been so busy doing over stuff, he's using old statistics. 
So I have specific recommendations about how we're going to close those loopholes, make it clear that the wealthy will have to pay their fair share, and have a series of tax cuts for middle-class families. 
Because I think if you only think about the coalition abroad you're missing the main point, which is we need a coalition here at home. 
We don't win with health care, we don't win with ISIS and the military, we don't take care of our vets, we don't care of our borders, we don't win. 
I've had more calls on that statement that Ted made New York is a great place. 
Well, you know, I think, from a historical point of view, somebody with my background, somebody with my views, somebody who has spent his entire life taking on the big money interests, I think a Sanders victory would be of some historical accomplishment, as well. 
They got together, they made recommendations on recruiting, on hiring, on the use of deadly force and what we're about to do is to bring community and police together so we can have a win-win. 
Marco made the choice to go the direction of the major donors to support amnesty because he thought it was politically advantageous. 
And the reason the reason those words matter is the African American community knows that on any given day some innocent person like Sandra Bland can get into a car, and then three days later she's going to end up dead in jail, or their kids are going to get shot. 
We have a criminal justice system that lets CEOs on Wall Street walk away, and yet we are imprisoning or giving jail sentences to young people who are smoking marijuana. 
Nobody went to jail after $100 billion in fines were paid and would give regulators the authority to go after the big banks. 
That should be the great challenge and the great opportunity for the next president of the United States, to forge consensus to go back to a high-growth strategy. 
But the bottom line is that, if you don't have a record there to look at and say, "I feel at peace that when Donald Trump is president of the United States, he's going to be firmly on our side on these issues." In fact, very recently, he was still defending Planned Parenthood. 
Knowing what we know now, with faulty intelligence, and not having security be the first priority when -- when we invaded, it was a mistake. 
It means every income group will see double-digit increases, from the very poorest to the very weakest, of at least 14 percent. 
We could do that, I believe, fairly easily, I've learned from talking to several generals, and then you move on from there. 
Look, the the simple fact is that my plan actually gives the middle class the greatest break: $2,000 per family. 
As you know, because I know you know a lot about health care. 
This is the most sophisticated terror group that has ever threatened the world or the United States of America. 
And the reason I don't like it is because there's too much fighting, too much yelling. 
And if you've had no crops at all, you don't owe me no tithes. 
Well, I have one now they (ph) call me, "Unit One". 
And the fact of the matter is if we give them a mission and we don't tie their hands behind their back, they can get it accomplished. 
The government is not supposed to be in every part of our lives, and that is what is causing the problem. 
We've all been talking about tax reforms tonight, and paying for infrastructure is caught right up in tax reform. 
And so people are still going to get health care, thankfully, in emergency rooms, in hospitals. 
but I think we have to get back to what this election has to be about. 
And by the way, the attack he keeps throwing out on the military budget, Marco knows full 
No, no, listen, everybody makes a mistake every once in a while, Jake, even George Shultz. 
And I would note the other individuals on this stage were nowhere to be found in that fight. 
And in Ohio, as the CEO, and guess what, we have got to have a CEO mentality and a way to beat Hillary Clinton and the Democracies in the fall. 
Now I will say that, there are a lot of people who say, if you get rid of the deductions, you ruin the American dream because, you know, home mortgage deduction. 
And on Common Core, Common Core has been eliminated in New Jersey. 
No one is ever better off with dictators but there comes a time you know, when you're on an airplane, they always say, "in case of an emergency oxygen masks will drop down. 
And that ground force must be primarily made up of Sunni Arabs themselves, Sunni Arabs that reject them ideologically and confront them militarily. 
If we were serious about it, we would raise the capital requirements and lessen the load on the community banks and other financial institutions. 
The two are inextricably connected because one causes the other. 
When the FBI director tells me that he can vet those people, then we'll consider it and not a moment before because your safety and security is what's most important to me. 
It's fine if they come in, but they have to come in legally. 
As we all remember, Senator Obama, when he ran against me, was against the war in Iraq. 
Now, as far as far as those 2 a.m. phone calls are concerned, judgment is what is required. 
Of course I can work with them, but let's be clear. 
It is tragic that you see Iraq, and other countries now talking to Russia. 
I have a job to do when I take over a public office. 
And I think John is right about this, there are crippling sanctions that are available, as it relates to the two or three banks that North Korea uses to to use it illicit trade. 
I watched him melt down and I'll tell you, it was one of the saddest things I've ever seen. 
But I agree with Jeb, you can't just do this by growing the economy. 
Every time we send signals like this, we send a signal of weakness, not strength. 
Jeb said when they come across the southern border they come as an act of love. 
You asked a question about the police and the difficulty in communities. 
I think that it was necessary to make sure that we were able after 9/11 to put in place the security that we needed. 
You see every other major country saying to moms that, when you have a baby, we're not gonna separate you from your newborn baby, because we are going to have we are gonna have medical and family paid leave, like every other country on Earth. 
That's why George Romney, Mitt's dad, was eligible to run for president, even though he was born in Mexico. 
And, the third is legislation, and that can only be done with the people behind you, which is why the two big legislative initiatives I'm campaigning on are repealing Obamacare, and adopting a simple flat tax to abolish the IRS. 
Maybe the barrier -- the bar's even higher for me. 
I'm interested in making sure we get the maximum amount of revenue from those who can well afford to provide it. 
We'll put in place a biometric exit-entry system on visas, because 40 percent of illegal immigration comes not over the border illegally, but people coming on visas and overstaying. 
But, at the same time, we also have to rebuild the military. 
We need to be fighting and killing ISIS where they are. 
I think we ought to move beyond that, about what they think. 
If Michigan won't do it, there have to be ways that we can begin to move, and then make them pay for it, and hold them accountable. 
So, what we have got to acknowledge, and I hope the Secretary does, is we are doing away with private health insurance premiums. 
And based on every analysis that I can find by people who are sympathetic to the goal, the numbers don't add up, and many people will actually be worse off than they are right now. 
Chris, in 1981, when Ronald Reagan came to the Oval Office, he encountered a military that had been debilitated just as the current military has, just like Jimmy Carter weakened our readiness, undermined our ability to defend this country, so too has Barack Obama. 
Here, my mom became the first in her family ever to go to college. 
We defended the highest median income in the country. 
What we could have done if they had said yes would have been a lot more than what we were able to have done. 
First of all...do I go let me go first, and then you can please recognize Rand after. 
But in addition to that, we have to have fiscal discipline. 
I know you've had a lot of choices to make, but now it's time to narrow it down. 
Transmission lines, pipe lines, bridges and highways. 
That's why I got into this race, as a member of we the people, to try bring some honesty and integrity back to the process. 
And we need a proven leader that has a record of solving problems, someone who doesn't cut and run; someone who could be a commander in chief to unite our country around common purposes; someone who doesn't disparage people. 
Now I know why he doesn't have one endorsement from any of his colleagues. 
I think what our campaign is indicating is that the American people are tired of establishment politics, tired of establishment economics. 
And by the way, I love and respect the caucus process in Iowa. 
And let's take, for example, one of Hillary's great vulnerabilities, the corruption at the Clinton Foundation, the fact that she had CEOs and foreign companies giving her money while she was secretary of state. 
Well, first of all, under President Jeb Bush, we would restore the strength of the military. 
And we're going to have to encourage them to act in an appropriate way, or we will lose our religious freedom. 
I know from my own experience as secretary of State that we were deeply worried about Assad's forces using chemical weapons because it would have had not only a horrific affect on people in Syria, but it could very well have affected the surrounding states, Jordan, Israel, Lebanon, Turkey. 
And around the world, America's influence has declined while this president has destroyed our military, our allies no longer trust us, and our adversaries no longer respect us. 
I'm the former chairman of the Senate Veterans Committee, and in that capacity I learned a very powerful lesson about the cost of war, and I will do everything that I can to make sure that the United States does not get involved in another quagmire like we did in Iraq, the worst foreign policy blunder in the history of this country. 
And what democratic socialism is about is saying that it is immoral and wrong that the top one-tenth of 1 percent in this country own almost 90 percent almost own almost as much wealth as the bottom 90 percent. 
John -- John, this country today has more income and wealth inequality than any major country on Earth. 
Well, that just wasn't that just wasn't the fact, Senator. 
And in that rule it was defined, and the courts approved this, that a Planned Parenthood, you couldn't separate the money between the actual abortion procedures, and there are 330,000 abortions that take place in this clinic, and their promotion of it. 
But overall, a lot of the forces at work in the region are ones that we cannot directly influence, but we can...
I want to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, create 13 million jobs. 
Well, putting the special ops people in there is better than not having them there, because they that's why they're called special ops, they're actually able to guide some of the other things that we're doing there. 
And Iran is fighting ISIS. We have to do one thing at a time. 
Before this, I was a very successful person as a developer and as a businessman. 
Now, at the end of our day, here is the truth that very few candidates will say, is that nobody up here, certainly no Republican, can address the major crises facing our country unless millions of people begin to stand up to the billionaire class that has so much power over our economy and our political life. 
Thirty-six years ago, Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush began the Reagan Revolution. 
And so that is part of the reason why this is so difficult. 
Look, I admire the fact that Governor Kasich is supporting spending more money on drug treatment and mental health. 
But we have to also be very clear that we do have some continuing challenges. 
If these are the kinds of people we should use our best and our finest. 
It's making everybody nervous to get out of their cars if you're a law enforcement officer. 
Who do you know will kill the terrorists, defend the constitution and repeal Obamacare? 
What I have advocated is that we pass law in this country that says all human life at every stage of its development is worthy of protection. 
They'll say it's the rich, take their money, but that won't help. 
And eminent domain is a good thing, not a bad thing. 
That is the thing that obviously makes sense, we can do that. 
You know, today, the top 1 percent earn a higher share of our income than any year since 1928. 
Barack Obama actually had the poison pill to stop it then. 
I'm not I'm not going to sit here and say, "Oh, I'm not on either side.
If you look at the folks on this stage, when Harry Reid and Chuck Schumer and establishment Republicans were leading the fight to pass a massive amnesty plan, I stood with Jeff Sessions and Steve King and the American people and led the fight to defeat that amnesty plan. 
I think she's got a beautiful face, and I think she's a beautiful woman. 
And I believe that not only Barney Frank, Paul Krugman, and others, have said that what I have proposed is the most effective. 
Because if you listen to the folks up here, you think that they weren't even there; they had nothing to do with this. 
The middle class has had declining income, workforce participation rates are lower than they were in 1977. 
Well, first off, what we don't do is do what Hillary Clinton and John Kerry and Barack Obama want us to do, which is their solution for everything, put more taxes on it, give more money to Washington, D.C., and then they will fix it. 
There are too many opioids being prescribed, and that leads directly now to heroin addiction. 
Under under Barack Obama and the proposals of Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and others, they've tried it their way, and it has failed miserably. 
I will absolutely give my return, but I'm being audited now for two or three years, so I can't do it until the audit is finished, obviously. 
We followed suit with a few years later passing, under my leadership, the most significant veterans' health care legislation in the modern history of this country. 
Call it what you want, people are not going to be dying on the sidewalk. 
We're gutting our military, and so the Iranians and the Chinese and the Russians and many other countries look at the United States not as serious as we once were. 
I did it as the chairman of the Budget Committee, working with Senator Domenici. 
You cannot make rash statements and expect the rest of the world to respond as though, well, it's just politics. 
First of all, I'd like to recognize Governor Haley for her incredible leadership in the aftermath of the the Emanuel AME church killings. 
So I think what's important for us to understand and there is a way forward on this issue that we an bring our country together on. 
Now, in regard to same-sex marriage, I don't favor it. 
We need to be able to penetrate these people when they are involved in these plots and these plans. 
And so the result is, the big banks get bigger, the small banks struggle to lend or even exist, and the result is what you have today. 
But I'm not worried about my finances, I'm worried about the finances of everyday Americans who today are struggling in an economy that is not producing good paying jobs while everything else costs more. 
He does not believe that our strength is a place where security can take place. 
So, I think we're just at the beginning, but I agree completely with the idea that we have got to stop imprisoning people who use marijuana. 
And this is not the first time that he has criticized President Obama. 
And I don't say that favorably, and I'm not sure if there's another system, but I say this. 
We did it, and it worked, and nobody headed for the hills or left the state because of it. 
But we shouldn't be toppling regimes that are fighting radical Islamic terrorists that are helping...
That you've been system is being gamed, and that you're turning out to fall further and further behind. 
It's worth remembering that Iran released our hostages the day Reagan was sworn in. 
And it also sends many messages in the Middle East that we're still involved. 
I've said I'm looking at a couple of different ways, one which you mentioned, Senator, but also trying to expand the existing tax to passive income that wealthy people have so that we do get more revenue into the Social Security Trust Fund. 
We've cut taxes by more than any governor in America by $5 billion. 
That means on day one his efforts to restrict the Second Amendment go away with the strike of a pen. 
Who in America is satisfied that we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth, including China? 
Right now, today, as a candidate, he supports federal taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood. 
It allows states to design innovative programs that cure poverty, because I think Nikki Haley will do a better job curing poverty than Barack Obama. 
I could use executive orders, but I don't trump the legislature, because if you do, you aggravate them, you anger them and then the long-term prospects get bleak. 
Well, you know, I was a radical Democrat before I started listening to Ronald Reagan. 
Well, you know, that's an excellent question, because what we are going through in this country is not simply an economic downturn. 
Not only -- not only do I apologize to Secretary Clinton -- and I hope we can work together on an independent investigation from day one -- I want to apologize to my supporters. 
You know, she only had a third-grade education, but you know, she knew how to stretch a dollar. 
I do, and I do think that we should not impose any kind of political agenda on the military. 
The fact of the matter is none of us up here is a military expert, and we sometimes act like we are, but we're not. 
Well, first of all he said the exact same thing about me, that I would make a great Vice Presidential nominee when Mitt Romney was considering. 
Marco stood with Chuck Schumer and Barack Obama on amnesty. 
So I -- I've written a book about this and yet this week, I did come up with a comprehensive strategy that -- that really mirrored what we said in the book, which is that we need to deal with E-Verify, we need to deal with people that come with a legal visa and overstay. 
If we're serious about America's leadership in the world, then we need to make sure that we have the back of the armed forces. 
Look, we don't know what's going to happen in ten months. 
But I think there has to be recognition that if we if we are too punitive, then you'll go to other other technology companies outside the United States. 
And in my view, it is undermining American democracy and it is allowing Congress to represent wealthy campaign contributors and not the working families of this country. 
We lose to Mexico both in trade and at the border. 
Well, I mean, well, I was in Congress for 18 years on the Defense Committee. 
Who denies that it is crazy to allow people to own guns who are criminals or are mentally unstable? 
I remember as a young mother, you know, having a baby wake up who was sick and I'm supposed to be in court, because I was practicing law. 
That is not an A. It may be the best that Hillary Clinton can do, but it's not the best America can do. 
Well, first let me address the tax issue because it's related to the entitlement issue and I want to thank you for holding a substantive debates where we can have debates about these key issues on taxes. 
You know, to be able to come from a grandfather who was a factory worker, a father who was a small business person, and now asking the people of America to elect me president. 
Millions of Americans are giving up on the political process. 
We don't need to add new rules, we need to make sure the FBI does its job. 
You think about the regulatory cost and the tax cost that's why small businesses are closing, rather than being formed in our country right now. 
We have got to demilitarize local police departments so they do not look like occupying armies. 
So, let me take this opportunity to give you a very short speech here on the issue. 
Well, first of all, recognize it is a substantial problem. 
That's what he talked about, the great threat of China. 
We pay for it with the same dollars that we pay for traditional health care with, recognizing that we spend twice as much as many countries per capita and health care and don't have as such access. 
We saw the shameful treatment of our sailors, that this creates weakness sends a signal of weakness around the world. 
So you don't get to say we need to secure the borders, and at the same time try to give Barack Obama more authority to allow Middle Eastern refugees coming in, when the head of the FBI tells us they cannot vet them to determine if they are ISIS terrorists. 
Put yours on first and then administer help to your neighbor.
It regulates schools that belong to local communities. 
I was one of the original sponsors of the DREAM Act. 
I think they're more interested in what we have to say about all the big issues facing us. 
That's Jeb's special interest and lobbyist talking. 
And when you're fighting Assad, you are fighting Russia, you're fighting you're fighting a lot of different groups. 
I'm against the kind of inhumane treatment that is now being visited upon families, waking them up in the middle of the night, rounding them up. 
I will hit the ground running and we will get America moving again. 
We have Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and others who have very important interests in their view. 
Mitch is gonna have to look out the window and see a whole lot of people saying, "Mitch, stop representing the billionaire class. 
So what I had to do then is go back and start working on a bill that wasn't the bill that I wanted. 
It's a disgrace that this country negotiated that deal. 
And I believe that Puerto Rico ought to have the right of self-determination. 
I spoke to heart doctors, I spoke to the American Camping Association, I spoke to auto dealers, and yes, I spoke to firms on Wall Street. 
And I want to just add to something that Senator Sanders said, the United States had a very big interest in trying to help stabilize the region. 
And what that's led to over $2 trillion of American companies' monies that are being kept offshore, because they don't want to pay the second tax. 
But after I said that, we're not hearing so much about Hillary Clinton's e-mails. 
Why didn't you do it?" You have to be responsible and accountable. 
Let me give you a little tip on how you win Ohio, it's reform, it's hope, it's growth, it's opportunity, and it's security. 
And I think that at the end of the day, it's not so much electability. 
And that's what gave me what I needed to ascend the ladder of opportunity in this country. 
And now they tell me that we ought to be able to admit these Syrian refugees. 
I believe we stand together to address the real issues facing this country, not allow them to divide us by race or where we come from. 
I applaud Secretary Kerry and the president for trying to put together this agreement. 
Ever since the attacks of September 11th, my colleagues, Democratic and Republican mayors, Democratic and Republican governors, made me their leader on homeland security and preparedness. 
You know, in the past couple of weeks the Wall Street Journal had a very interesting article about the state of Arizona. 
I have made very clear that hardworking, middle-class families need a raise, not a tax increase. 
I looked at some of the remarks that people made after finding out that Justice Scalia had died, and they were truly nasty remarks. 
And I sort of have to laugh when Ted makes a big deal out of the fact that he's doing well in the polls. 
We need a president with the judgment and resolve to keep this country safe from radical Islamic terrorists. 
I don't think the United States should be engaged in symbolic military activity. 
I have never heard a candidate never, who has received huge amounts of money from oil, from coal, from Wall Street, from the military industrial complex, not one candidate say, oh, these campaign contributions will not influence me. 
I have been a strong ally with him on virtually every issue. 
Well, first of all, I don't believe that believing in traditional marriage the way I do makes you a bigot or a hater. 
I want to have enough clean energy to power every home the next four years. 
Bottom line here is, in the year 2015, we should look at a college degree the same way we looked at a high school degree 50 or 60 years ago. 
And then fight and fight, and fight for that nomination to make sure that that nomination passes. 
Donald wants to end it because he says it doesn't go nearly far enough. 
And that's why I have put forward a plan to do just that. 
If we don't seal the border, the rest of this stuff clearly doesn't matter. 
They are recruiting people, including Americans, to join them, with the promise that they are joining this great apocalyptic movement that is going to defeat the West. 
This is a guy who thinks that Hillary Clinton is a great negotiator in Iran...
Last week, Hillary Clinton went before a committee. 
Wounded warriors all over the place who I love, we have nothing for it. 
This is a president that views this country as a country that's been too powerful in the world and we create problems around the world. 
Stop the Washington bull and let's get things done. 
The no-fly zone, I would hope, would be also shared by Russia. 
Wouldn't let us be victims, and has been an inspiration to many people. 
The weakest person on this stage by far on illegal immigration is Jeb Bush. 
In fact, sometimes it's not that way and I've had more two a.m. phone calls than everybody here put together, making life and death decisions, put together very complex teams to accomplish things that have never been done before. 
This relates to the strategic patience of the Obama administration. 
We need to have a resolve that will bring the world together to root out the kind of radical jihadist ideology that motivates organizations like ISIS, a barbaric, ruthless, violent jihadist terrorist group. 
When you have terrorist strapping dynamite around their chest, exploding and murdering innocent women and children, they are not equivalent to the IDF officers protecting Israel. 
Why don't they ask Hillary Clinton why she believe that partial- birth abortion, which is a gruesome procedure that has been outlawed in this country, she thinks that's a fundamental right. 
But once you have economic growth, it is important that we reach out to people who live in the shadows, the people who don't seem to ever think that they get a fair deal. 
The federal government can play a role in allowing them to do that, but they should not the process of statehood or the status of Puerto Rico won't be solved until we get to the bigger issue of how you deal with the structural economic problems they're facing right now. 
But, you know, a lot of this is is is pushed by big government. 
With the trees and the roads, and the countryside. 
You know, we used to leave New York to go to Florida. 
Leadership is about creating a serious strategy to deal with the threat of our time. 
First of all, when Jeb was governor, his first four years as governor, he expand his Medicaid program grew twice as fast as mine. 
They have affiliates in over a dozen countries across this planet. 
And we've grown jobs by 400,000 that's one of the fastest growing states in the country. 
And in fact, in Obama administration, we did not meet with anybody without conditions. 
I believe and I may be wrong, in which case I'd probably have to take a different path, but I would get along with a lot of the world leaders that this country is not getting along with. 
I see him repeat himself every night, he says five things, everyone's dumb, he's gonna make America great again...
And, you know, take advantage of the tremendous opportunities in energy that God has given us, not get involved in these little petty arguments. 
I spent 3, he spends 42 of their money, of special interest money. 
So we've got some real work to do, and let's try to make sure we actually implement what has been agreed to with the Russians. 
But you can't we're not gonna beat Hillary Clinton with someone who's willing to say or do anything to win an election. 
First of all, I think it's a bad agreement, I would never have done it. 
You know, they are a strategic partner for us but also recognize that we have a Judeo Christian foundation, and the last thing we need to do is to reject Israel. 
Let me be very careful when answering this, because I don't think national television in front of 15 million people is the place to discuss classified information. 
And, you know, there are a number of programs that I think are duplicative and redundant and not producing the results that people deserve. 
There's a real danger when people get distracted by peripheral issues. 
But millions of women are helped by Planned Parenthood. 
And no matter how you cut it, when I when I came out, I hit immigration, I hit it very hard. 
And, it is true, we should not be discussing in a wide spread way the exact tactics that we're going to use because that allows terrorist to know to practice how to evade us. 
That's why I have the support of generals, of admirals, of 12 Medal of Honor recipients and many other people that know that I would be a steady commander-in-chief and rebuild our military. 
That Great Recession, 9 million people lost their jobs, 5 million lost their homes, $13 trillion in wealth disappeared. 
Get rid of the artificial lines and you will have yourself great plans. 
I have a proven record as governor of the state of Florida, as a conservative leader. 
I have absolutely no concerns about it whatsoever. 
And then, after the war, this is the guy who, in fact, yes, you're right, he opened up relations with China, and now pushed various type of trade agreements, resulting in American workers losing their jobs as corporations moved to China. 
And believes that they are the ones who can fix our country. 
And the question for anyone on illegal immigration is, where were you in that fight? 
Right now, the wealthy pay too little and the middle class pays too much. 
I believe that's what the American people to want see. 
And if we get back to the free market principles and constitutional liberties that built this country, we can turn this country around. 
And we have other ways of of utilizing our facilities and our talents as foreign aid: doing things in South America and Central America and Mexico that improve the economy there, so that they don't feel the need to come over here. 
You lose on everything...Let me just tell you they de-value their currency. 
Well, there is no evidence that they can fix anything in Washington, D.C. 
The reason is some of the people in the audience are insurance people, and insurance lobbyists, and special interests. 
And the Libyan people had a free election the first time since 1951. 
They've been talking about this issue for 30 years, and nothing ever happens. 
Asking Saudi Arabia and Iran to work together, when they can't stand each other and are engaged in a proxy battle right at this moment. 
And, the leaders in charge there now are doing a terrible job. 
Why in God's name does Wall Street make huge campaign contributions? 
I want to thank the people of New Hampshire, and I want to celebrate the birthday of a great president, Ronald Reagan would have been 105 today. 
And we will rebuild the U.S. military so no one will there test it. 
We are losing jobs like nobody's ever lost jobs before. 
And I would have to make an evaluation based on the circumstances at the time I took office as to how much help they continue to need. 
Above that, every American pays 10 percent across the board a flat, fair tax. 
That's the political front, and if Donald Trump wants to start a registry in our country of people by faith, he can start with me, and I will sign up as one who is totally opposed to his fascist appeals that wants to vilify American Muslims. 
Yes, we have to defend ourselves against terrorism, but there are ways to do that without impinging on our constitutional rights and our privacy rights. 
You know, I remember well when my youth minister took me to hear Dr. King. 
And and you know, it goes back to the whole concept of regulations, which are in everything. 
And, you know, the simple fact of the matter is, we hear a lot of promises in this debate, a lot of promises about these tax cuts or tax schemes sometimes that I call them. 
First of all, I want to build a wall, a wall that works. 
But what we need to do is turn it over to the regional powers to be able to handle that. 
I would instruct the Department of Justice to investigate them and prosecute any and all criminal violations. 
It's so loud, I don't like it." You know, I turned to my friend and I said, "You know, she's really on to something." 
There are they are barrel bombing the innocents in that country. 
A choice about what kind of nation we will be in the 21st century. 
don't listen to the Trumps of the world and allowing them to divide us. 
We're supporting troops that we don't even know who they are...
And you don't go tell Muslim nations you want them to be part of a coalition when you have a leading candidate for president of the United States who insults their religion. 
Bret, let me tell you, this is another one of those places where Hillary Clinton has so much to answer for, and why she is completely unqualified to be commander in chief. 
And when the president of the United States gets out to speak about it, does he support police officers? 
So, we're going to enforce the law, we're going to change policing practices, we're going to change incarceration practices, but we're also going to emphasize education, jobs, and housing. 
You have a big lawsuit over your head while you're running. 
The problem was, it was to tear down it was to tear down it was to tear down the house...
I will talk about what I will do as it relates to appointing Supreme Court Justices. 
You know, we should use our economic power in lots of different ways. 
I think the lesson's learned are that we have to have to have a strategy to get and a strategy to get out. 
And what we've done now is let the creep of regulation turn into a stampede of regulations, which is involved in every aspect of our lives. 
It's innovating it's producing a better product at, frankly, a lower price. 
But I think a pause on Syrian refugees has been exactly right for all the governors that have called for it, and also, of course, for me as the governor of Ohio. 
And not just meet with the leaders of Russia, but also meet with those who aspire to freedom and liberty in Russia. 
We have to get the economy working and incomes rising for everyone, including those who have been left out and left behind. 
Well, you just you just listed a litany of discredited attacks from Democrats and my political opponents, and I'm not gonna waste 60 seconds detailing them all. 
What we're going to do to strengthen the military. 
So there must be something inherently fair about that. 
And, Jim, you know full well that in the seven years I was U.S. attorney we went after pharmaceutical companies. 
We've been struggling to get this done since Harry Truman. 
So, I think it's important for us to be careful about the language we use, which is why I've been critical of Donald Trump. 
The media noise will soon be over and it's now for the men and women of Iowa to decide. 
You blindfold the American people so that they cannot see the true cost of government. 
So, Governor Kasich...why would you then bail out rich Wall Street banks, but not Main street, not Mom and Pop, not Sabina Loving? 
You can do that, and also be fiscally responsible. 
I hope we remain that conservative movement that appeals to our hopes and our dreams and the belief that America will always be better in its future than it's been in its story history. 
We are going to replace Obamacare with something so much better. 
But I think we have to be cognizant of the fact there's a lot of people that are concerned about having a pro-life position without any exceptions. 
I think the simple fact of the matter is, and this is where I would agree with Jeb, and I've been saying it all along, we need to give everybody a chance, treat everybody with respect, and let them share in this great American dream that we have, Megan. 
They believed that health care should be available to all of our people. 
So, why it was difficult for me to do it was based on that. 
I -- I think -- I think as Democrats we ought to proudly support the Affordable Care Act, improve it, and make it the model that we know it can be. 
You know, a lot of business activity in America is conducted like the guy that does my dry cleaning. 
I want to continue to intensify that, and that's exactly what the president is doing. 
So I believe that over the next few years, not tomorrow, but over the next few years, we have got to move the minimum wage to a living wage, 15 bucks an hour. 
But, if Putin wants to go and knocked the hell out of ISIS, I am all for it, 100%, and I can't understand how anybody would be against it...
Because this president has consistently underestimated the threat of ISIS. If you listen to the State of the Union the other night, he described them as a bunch of guys with long beards on the back of a pickup truck. 
But you know, the the the fact of the matter is you know, if we fix the taxation system, make it absolutely fair, and get rid of the incredible regulations because every regulation is a tax, it's a on goods and services. 
We need a commander-in-chief that will rebuild our military and restore respect to our veterans by revamping and fixing a broken Veterans Administration, That's my pledge to you. 
They order planes, they make Boeing build their plant in China. 
Let me tell you that, in this country in this country, people are concerned about their economic future. 
I think there's a sense in this country today that somehow our best days are behind us. 
And I'm pro life not just for the nine months in the womb, I'm pro-life for when they get out and it's a lot more complicated. 
And over the years, I have strongly avoided instant background checks, doing away with this terrible gun show loophole. 
And it requires an entire world to come together, including in a very active way, the Muslim nations. 
As Secretary Clinton well knows, when this campaign began she was 50 points ahead of me. 
Well, the legislation passed, but it has no support. 
And the problem is that sometimes we're surprised. 
Right now, Barack Obama is launching between 15 and 30 air attacks a day. 
In Florida, we have the lowest in-state tuition of any state, because there's accountability, just as John said. 
Yes, we'd raise the retirement age two years, and phase it in over 25 years, that means we'd raise it one month a year for 25 years when we're all living longer, and living better lives. 
The domino theory, you know, if Vietnam goes, China, da, da, da, da, da, da, da. 
As far as religious freedom is concerned, one of the basic tenets of this nation, and I believe that the Constitution protects all of our rights. 
He sent a clear signal that the United States would be strong and fight Islamic terrorism, and he did keep us safe. 
And, I think I have that kind of experience, maybe because they've beat me up for so many years, and I know exactly how to handle them because I've been in the arena with them time and time again. 
This vast overreach has created a huge problem for our country, and Hillary Clinton wants to double down on that. 
40 percent of the people who come here illegally come legally, and then they overstay the visa. 
What those facts knew was that these folks had weapons. 
We will bring back trillions of dollars that's offshore. 
This was something that was spread widely 15 or 20 years ago, and it has not been adequately, you know, revealed to the public what's actually going on. 
And if states want to opt out of Common Core, fine. 
He is the foremost expert in our country on the minimum wage, and what its effects are. 
I was mentioned on this in this answer, and so I'm going to respond this way. 
But if for some reason, Neil, he beats the rest of the field, I already know the Democrats are going to be bringing a suit. 
So we've got to look at the full range and then come to some smart decisions about having more streamlined and focused approach. 
I haven't had an opportunity to weigh in on foreign policy, and I just want to mention that when the war, when the issue occurred in 2003, I suggested to President Bush that he not go to war? 
I introduced legislation in the Senate that I believe is more narrowly focused at the actual threat, which is radical Islamic terrorism, and what my legislation would do is suspend all refugees for three years from countries where ISIS or Al Qaida control substantial territory. 
Our country that we love so much doesn't win anymore. 
But I think I'm a uniter, I think people sense it. 
I would have a strategy to destroy ISIS, and I would immediately create a policy of containment as it relates to Iran's ambitions, and to make it make clear that we are not going to allow for Iran to do what it's doing, which is to move towards a nuclear weapon. 
Every single time that there has been a Defense bill in the Senate, three people team up to vote against it. 
It would destroy community life, it would tear families apart. 
First of all, Jeb, I am very happy that you denied that, and I appreciate that very much. 
You know, I'm reminded of that that is the same position that Marco took in Iowa on ethanol subsidies. 
We will renew America if we work together, and I am totally confident that we will. 
You look at the Fed, one of the reasons we had the financial crash is throughout the 2000s, we had loose money, we had an asset bubble, it drove up the price of real estate, drove up the price of commodities, and then in the third quarter of 2008, the Fed tightened the money and crashed those asset prices, which caused a cascading collapse. 
He's passed hundreds of bills and I don't think any of us believe Joe Biden should be president of the United States. 
It left our state to go where it would be treated more kindly. 
When I'm elected president, we will restore that interpretation of Title X. And this deal will be finished. 
We have to understand what we're going through here. 
And, look, I think it's important to look at what the most important counterterrorism judgment of the first four years of the Obama administration was, and that was the very difficult decision as to whether or not to advise the president to go after bin Laden. 
It's hard to imagine how people can do, bomb, and kill 168 people in Oklahoma City, or do the Boston Marathon bombing, but this is what I believe, and for a couple of reasons. 
What I do have a problem with is being lied about and then putting that out there as truth. 
Let me say let me say something that may not be great politics. 
And if you elect me as your next president, I promise you that you will get somebody who is accountable to everybody and beholden to no one. 
And, finally, we went from $8 billion in the hole to $2 billion in the black. 
And I would first of all, face him down in that whole region, the whole Baltic region. 
One of the things that's critical is we're doing that in conjunction with abolishing the corporate income tax, with abolishing the Obamacare taxes, with abolishing the payroll taxes, which are the biggest taxes paid by most working Americans, and with abolishing the death tax, which is cruel and unfair. 
Not only did I vote against that war, I helped lead the opposition, and if you go to my website, berniesanders.com, you will see the statement that I made in 2002. 
He himself said that the destruction of the Soviet Union the fall of the Soviet Union was the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the 20th century, and now he's trying to reverse that. 
Barack Obama is undertaking a systematic effort to change this country, to make America more like the rest of the world. 
So, we do need to take on the Republicans very clearly and directly. 
But, what we did is we said to the working families of this country, look, we know things are tough, but if you want to help us go beyond establishment politics, and establishment economics, send us something. 
And if I am president and we get our hands on him, he is standing trial for treason. 
When I'm president of the United States, we're going to have a VA that cares more about our veterans than about the bureaucrats who work at the VA. Thank you. 
She loves this country as much as anybody in this room, and she wants a secure border. 
They take advantage of us economically and every other way. 
But where I disagree with you, Governor O'Malley, is I do believe we have to deal with the fundamental issues of a handful of billionaires...
At the time, the liberal governor of Florida, who claimed he was a Republican his name was Charlie Crist he wanted to impose cap-and-trade on Florida. 
I would encourage folks, if you go to our website, tedcruz.org, we have the specific numbers on the website. 
We the Muslims should lead the effort on the ground." 
My mother's dream -- and she died very young, but my mother's dream for her whole life was to be able to get out of that rent-controlled apartment and own a home of her own. 
Ultimately, we have got to say as a nation, Secretary Clinton, is health care a right of all people or is it not? 
And those are made up of the FBI, state and local law enforcement. 
This is what I think -- this is what many economists believe that one of the reasons that real unemployment in this country is 10 percent, one of the reasons that African American youth unemployment and underemployment is 51 percent is the average worker in America doesn't have any disposable income. 
is put all of our resources through the Department of Homeland Security, through the State Department, through our intelligence agencies, and we have to have an increased vetting and screening. 
China bought the Chicago Stock Exchange, China, a Chinese company. 
I'm extraordinary concerned about the direction of this country, the divisiveness that is going on, fiscal irresponsibility, the failure to take a leadership position in the world. 
Thanks to President Obama's leadership, it's now gone much further. 
And that's what I like and that's what the country is going to like. 
Well, I just happen to believe that people are not stupid. 
We need to break the Washington cartel, and the only way to do it is to end all the subsidies and all the mandates and have a simple flat tax. 
If I was trying to destroy this country, what I would do is find a way to drive wedges between all the people, drive the debt to an unsustainable level, and then step off the stage as a world leader and let our enemies increase while we decreased our capacity as a military person. 
So I do believe that in the future, not by dismantling what we have hereI helped write that billbut by moving forward, rallying the American people, I do believe we should have health care for all. 
In terms of the last one, as I understand it, we did not suggest that we had the endorsement of a newspaper. 
And in Libya, for example, the United States, Secretary Clinton, as secretary of state, working with some other countries, did get rid of a terrible dictator named Gadhafi. 
I think the governor gave a very good example about the weaknesses in that law and I think we have to take another look at it. 
Every time we've pursued all three of those whether in the 1920s with Calvin Coolidge or the 1960s with JFK or the 1980s with Ronald Reagan the result has been incredible economic growth. 
Not about politics, not about partisanship, but putting the people of my state and our country first. 
If you want to assess who is telling the truth then you should look to Jeff Sessions, who said, without Ted Cruz the Rubio-Schumer amnesty bill would have passed, and Ted was responsible. 
As president I will restore and rebuild our military, restore the alliances and keep us safe. 
And that's an economy where ordinary Americans are working longer hours for low wagers. 
But I will say at least half of the things Marco said are flat-out false. 
And, every one of them said that their child did not die in vain, or their wife, of their husband did not die in vain. 
They've been stepped on for too long in this society, and we are beginning to treat them. 
Jeb is absolutely self just so you understand, you know what that is? 
They would give more tax breaks to the super-wealthy and corporations, not to the middle class. 
Thousands and thousands of lives, we have nothing. 
I was home in Burlington, Vermont, on Christmas Eve, the temperature was 65 degrees. 
I would add to that that this election cannot be a resume competition. 
But before you do that, you've got to think about what happens the day after. 
And as president I would expand enormous energy, literally call every member of Congress that I thought I could persuade. 
Did you say if you want people to die on the streets, if you don't support socialized health care, you have no heart. 
I have worked with President Obama for the last seven years. 
So please, do not explain to me, coming from a state where democratic governors and republican governors have supported virtually no gun control. 
In fact, if you remember, 50, 60 years ago, the University of California, City University of New York were virtually tuition-free. 
" When I ran in Texas, I told the people of Texas, "if you elect me, I will lead the fight against amnesty.
So as we get a cease-fire and maybe some humanitarian corridors, that still leaves the terrorist groups on the doorstep of others in Syria, Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, and the like. 
We don't want to be like the rest of the world, we want to be the United States of America. 
We'll tell our soldiers, our people in the service, take care of your job and then come home once we've accomplished our goals. 
And I would note the Senate just a few weeks ago voted to suspend refugees from Middle Eastern countries. 
We need to take a new approach of taxing reforming how we tax, and reforming the regulations in our in our country before it's too late. 
Barack Obama was never responsible for those decisions. 
Paul Krugman, the Nobel Prize winning economist, who said my plan for what we should do to reign in Wall Street was more comprehensive and better. 
And every times he goes to get one of these dental claims filled, the V.A. asks him, "well, how do we know you lost your teeth in the Army?" 
And people are worried about if somebody's going to say that I'm Islamophobic or what have you. 
And I had to confront the possibility of being a single parent. 
We have the Russians and the Iranians working together, not to fight ISIS, but to prop up Assad. 
Let me say, I read that editorial today with a great amusement. 
And Hillary Clinton, she wants to double down on that. 
I think it's only fair to put on the record, Senator Sanders voted in the Senate for a resolution calling for ending the Gadhafi regime and asking that the U.N. be brought in, either a congressional vote or a U.N. Security Council vote. 
Then, we would see stories about the economic calamity that is befalling our nation. 
And but that doesn't matter when it comes to the issue of preexisting conditions. 
Air strikes are a key component of defeating them, but they must be defeated on the ground by a ground force. 
We would move the Medicare system from a 7 percent growth down to about a 5 percent growth. 
And in the trade agreement, the TPP, it's critical to us, not only for economic reasons and for jobs, because there are so many people who are connected to getting jobs because of trade, but it allows us to create not only economy alliances, but also potentially strategic alliances against the Chinese. 
Are you fed up with how Washington wastes your money? 
I was a businessman, I got along with Clinton, I got along with everybody. 
You know, I believe strongly that we need to be talking about what people talk to me about, like how are we going to make college affordable? 
And the middle class, when they come to the cash register, have a whole cart full of things that cost 5, 10 or 15 cents more, they notice it. 
I think the Secretary described the situation appropriately. 
It is enhanced interrogation, it is vigorous interrogation, but it does not meet the generally recognized definition of torture. 
And indeed, if you look at the "gang of eight," one individual on this stage broke his promise to the men and women who elected him and wrote the amnesty bill. 
But, I can tell you for millions of Americans at home watching this, it is a very personal economic issue. 
And if that means making sure that folks like Donald and many of us on the stage don't get it, that's the right thing to do because here's what Hillary Clinton is going to want to do. 
Anyone can go online at tedcruz.org and read exactly what it said. 
Someone from Taiwan would not have been able to come here as a tourist. 
We don't need to set this up as we either take a bunch of refugees who will be infiltrated with terrorists, I guarantee you. 
He doesn't understand the threat in ISIS. He consistently underestimates it but I do not. 
I'm on the committee that wrote the Affordable Care Act. 
I can tell you, there wouldn't have been much damage. 
I'm not blaming Chris, by the way, but he will know about that. 
And the fact is, let law enforcement make those decisions. 
Well, thank you for the question, Chris, and it's great to be here tonight. 
What we have to do, and what I've done, is made the tax rate and one of the reasons they don't the taxes so obnoxious, they can't do it. 
You should not have to borrow a dime to pay tuition. 
And I'm very proud that for the first time a majority of my donors are women, 60 percent. 
We saw a Muslim brotherhood president installed, and then we saw him ousted and the army back. 
Today, it is my view that when you have the three...largest banks in America are much bigger than they were when we bailed them out for being too big to fail, we have got to break them up. 
And for 30 years, the issue of immigration has been about someone who's in this country, maybe they're here illegally, but they're looking for a job. 
The first thing I intend to do is to rescind every illegal and unconstitutional executive action taken by Barack Obama. 
Well, the president didn't listen, the administration didn't follow through, and that's exactly what happened. 
Now, I personally believe that President Obama's work to push through the Dodd-Frank... 
And, it turns out that up until and this has blown me away, never in a million years would I have believed that I would be standing here tonight telling you that we have received three and a half million individual contributions from well over a million people. 
We can do this, but it's going to require someone who has proven leadership skills to make it happen. 
You should stick with it and that's exactly what happened. 
I graduated from high school at Second Baptist not too far away from here. 
One in 10 people right now aren't working or have given up altogether, as you said. 
You know, we could give you another example the Marines, the Army, these wonderful six soldiers that were killed. 
But you just cannot negotiate that way with terrorists, or you're gonna have so many other James Foleys. 
That doesn't mean we should be legalizing gate way drugs. 
We'll have mandatory E-verify, a mandatory entry/exit tracking system and until all of that is in place and all of that is working and we can prove to the people of this country that illegal immigration is under control, nothing else is going to happen. 
You see, we usually elect presidents in America that want to change the things that are wrong in America. 
Let's create an America that works for all of us, not the handful on top. 
Now, it is Wall Street's time to help the middle class. 
They don't know how they're going to save for their kids' future, to go to college. 
You know, the annual Medicare budget is over $600 billion. 
And one of the reasons in some states why the percentage cost has gone up so much is because governors there would not extend Medicaid. 
I think what is... Is creating much deeper, closer relations and, yes, coalitions within our own country. 
And, you look at the questions "Donald Trump, are you a comic-book villain?" 
It's wonderful to stand up for two days and do that. 
You have to get them into the Oval Office and get them all together, and you have to make deals. 
China does have a lot of influence over North Korea and he should be leveraging our relationship with the Chinese to ensure that North Korea no longer has access to the resources that have allowed them a country that has no economy to develop long range missiles already capable of reaching the west coast of the United States potentially. 
Common sense regulations, which we have, lower taxes, which we have, the lowest taxes, tax cuts in the country. 
It's called the mainstream media who every single day 
That makes sense in the media, but I gotta tell you, one of the things I was most proud of when I ran for Senate here in Texas, I earned 40 percent of the hispanic vote here in Texas. 
Clearly North Korea is a very strange situation because it is such an isolated country run by a handful of dictators, or maybe just one, who seems to be somewhat paranoid. 
For most of his life, he has described himself as very pro- choice and as a supporter of partial birth abortion. 
Well, that's the that's the reason why this campaign is so important. 
I think most Americans understand that our country today faces a series of unprecedented crises. 
Now, the fact of the matter is, we expanded to get people on their feet, and once they're on their feet, we are giving them the training and the efforts that they need to be able to get work and pull out of that situation. 
Come on, that's just not you scare senior citizens with that. 
I worked hard with not only federal agents but with police officers and here's the problem, sanctuary cities is part of the problem in this country. 
We need to rebuild the military to defeat the enemy. 
What we need is a commander in chief who makes -- clear, if you join ISIS, if you wage jihad on America, then you are signing your death warrant. 
We should've had a a forces agreement to stay there with a small force, and instead of that, we politically and militarily pulled back, and now we have the creation of ISIS. 36 days ago in this very library, I gave a speech with a comprehensive strategy how to take out ISIS, and it requires American leadership and engagement. 
Not -- not amnesty, earned legal status, which means you pay a fine and do many things over an extended period of time. 
And if people want a more high-minded politics and want to move our country forward, go on to martinomalley.com and help my campaign move our country forward. 
Well, interestingly enough, you should see the eyes of some of those children when I say to them we're going to have to open your head up and take out this tumor. 
Well, I have to tell you, I hear phenomenal things. 
And as president, I would go through and I would look at what a person's life has been. 
Here's the reality of American economic life today. 
If a police officer breaks the law, like any public official, that officer must be held accountable. 
The the truth of the matter is, big government benefits the wealthy, it benefits the lobbyists, it benefits the giant corporations. 
South Carolina, you have a critical choice to make. 
They see more people in jail in the United States of America than any other country on earth, 2.2 million. 
And you have to set the rate at an appropriate level. 
It's fixing the schools where we live and telling kids to stay off drugs. 
I believe that the power of corporate America, the power of Wall Street, the power of the drug companies, the power of the corporate media is so great that the only way we really transform America and do the things that the middle class and working class desperately need is through a political revolution when millions of people begin to come together and stand up and say: Our government is going to work for all of us, not just a handful of billionaires. 
Now, I I inherited an an $8 billion hole in Ohio, I have common-sense regulations, I have tax cuts the biggest of any governor in the country and we have a fiscal plan. 
Because she is captive of the public service uniforms. 
In that race the Democrat was the spoiler, not me. 
Religious institutions should be able to practice the religion that they believe in. 
So I know Secretary Kerry is working extremely hard to try to move that cease-fire up as quickly as possible. 
Look at the mess we have after spending $2 trillion dollars, thousands of lives, wounded warriors all over the place who I love, OK? 
In Iowa, New Hampshire, the race is very, very close. 
I've come up with a tax plan that many, many people like very much. 
Now, we do need antipoverty programs, you can't have free enterprise programs without them, but not as a way of life. 
I inherited a state in New Jersey that was downtrodden, and beaten by liberal democratic policies, high taxation, high regulation. 
I think we have to think through this war on drugs which has done an enormous amount of damage. 
It's taking care of the lady next door who just lost her husband. 
We ought to give them a little bit of a liability release so that they share data amongst themselves and share data with the federal government, they're not fearful of a lawsuit. 
You know, and I've had a lot of experience building things, organizing things, you know, a national scholarship program. 
Well, I agree with the Des Moines Register, but let's not blow this out of proportion. 
But what happened at the university there, what's happening at other universities, I think reflects the deep sense of, you know, concern, even despair that so many young people, particularly of color, have...You know, I recently met with a group of mothers who lost their children to either killings by police or random killings in their neighborhoods, and hearing their stories was so incredibly, profoundly heartbreaking. 
And we're going to just fix everything with waste, fraud, and abuse? 
So I don't knowI'm not impugning your motive because you voted to deregulate swaps and derivatives. 
So what we have to do is the radical reform of a broken criminal justice system. 
I mean, you are in the Senate, but I hope that answers your question. 
We need overwhelming air power, we need to arm the Kurds, who can be our boots on the ground, and if ground troops are necessary, then we should employ them, but it shouldn't be politicians demonstrating political toughness. 
Well, for a start, this may seem like a radical idea, but I think we have got to tell the medical profession and doctors who are prescribing opiates and the pharmaceutical industry that they have got to start getting their act together, we cannot have this huge number of opiates out there throughout this country, where young people are taking them, getting hooked, and then going to heroin. 
We did as much as we could because the Libyans themselves had very strong feelings about what they wished to accept. 
The people that are on it now will not be allowed to renew it, and new applicants will not be allowed to apply to it. 
In fact, if my mother were secretary of treasury, we would not be in a deficit situation. 
And it will have to be backed up with increased air strikes. 
Here's my commitment to you, because I did it as Florida. 
Even though they do speak English, and even though they embrace American values. 
And, our goal there, in my view, is to work and lean strongly on China to put as much pressure. 
For a start, the secretary and I disagree and I think the president does not agree with her in terms of the concept of a no-fly zone in Syria. 
As an executive, I would figure out how to separate those people who can afford it versus those people, or the hard-working folks who put those money in those institutions let me no, no. 
I'm the only candidate up here of the many candidates who has no Super PAC. 
I have repeatedly supported an effort to take that out of that bill, and I honored that campaign commitment. 
But I think it's the right road for us to try to travel. 
What they care about is, are we going to have a president who actually knows what they're doing to make these decisions? 
I think the other problem is we have a legal immigration system that's outdated, it's primarily based on whether you have family members living here. 
And the fact is that what I did do, what I did do from the beginning, Chris, as soon as I found out about it, I fired the people who were responsible. 
And that means the elderly are told, we're going to ration a hip replacement, we're going to ration a knee replacement. 
And I would tell you also that when you have three out of the four largest banks in America today, bigger than they weresignificantly bigger than when we bailed them out because they were too big to fail, I think if Teddy Roosevelt were alive today, a good Republican by the way, what he would say is: Break them up; they are too powerful economically; they are too powerful politically. 
And let's not let the secular progressives drive that out of us. 
We need to create a coalition, Sunni-led coalition on the ground with our special operators to destroy ISIS and bring about stability. 
And when it began, we had no political organization, no money, and not much name recognition outside of the state of Vermont. 
I will not apologize for defending the Bill of Rights. 
The moderate Arab states would have been so concerned about that, they would have turned over Osama bin Laden and anybody else you wanted on a silver platter within two weeks. 
And, this year, in 2015, New Jersey's had the best year of job growth that our state has ever had in the last 15 years. 
I think what we need is a commander in chief who is focused like a laser on keeping this country safe and on defeating radical Islamic terrorism. 
In fact, one of her first acts as president may very well be to pardon herself because Hillary Clinton... Hillary Clinton stored classified information on her private server. 
The people that are out there listening, America was never great because we ran America from the top down. 
So I have tried to come out with a comprehensive approach that, number one, does tell the states that we will work with you from the federal government putting more money, about a billion dollars a year, to help states have a different approach to dealing with this epidemic. 
And we put together not the bill that I wanted, but probably the most comprehensive V.A. health care bill in the modern history of this country. 
And what we did is try to move that department toward community policing, so that the police officers become part of the community and not, as we see, in some cities an oppressive force. 
The real issue the real issue is not what are people using to commit violence, but why are they committing the violence? 
Yes, of course, we have special interests that are unfortunately doing too much to rig the game. 
Because what her campaign was saying Bernie Sanders, who has fought for universal health care for my entire life, he wants to end Medicare, end Medicaid, end the children's health insurance program. 
It is not a radical idea to say that if somebody works 40 hours a week, that person should not be living in poverty. 
I want to tackle those barriers that stand in the way of too many Americans right now. 
This is a president that's trying to redefine this country. 
Now, secondly, let me say I'm a maniac and everyone on this stage is stupid, fat, and ugly. 
What are you supposed to...how are you supposed to -- no, I'll tell you how you, look...
And their desire is to destroy us and to destroy our way of life. 
I think America can only live up to its potential when we make sure that every American has a chance to live up to his or her potential. 
We make promises we can't keep under the bright light of the fall, we will have trouble. 
We had Iran putting operatives in South America and Central America. 
And look, I think we have an opportunity as America to put something really great together again. 
Looking at both of them, and evaluating them both, and I'm talking to the American people because one of the things we must recognize is that this country is of, for, and by the people. 
If you look at the numbers, there are actually as many, if not more white communities that are truly being left behind and left out. 
I believe we have to take this step by step to try to reign in Iranian aggression, their support for terrorism and the other bad behavior that can come back and haunt us. 
One wonders if this were a white suburban community what kind of response there would have been. 
And the entire New York times attack is that I disclosed that loan on one filing with the United States Senate, that was a public filing. 
And if you listen to what they say -- and I had a chance over those 11 hours to watch and listen, as well as what I see in their debates -- they are putting forth alarming plans. 
Two-thirds of all new jobs come from small businesses. 
If I'm the nominee, she won't get within 10 miles of the White House. 
When we have more people in jail, disproportionately African American and Latino, than China does, a communist authoritarian society four times our size. 
All over this country we have Republican candidates for president saying we hate the government. 
We will strengthen our country when we come together. 
And frankly I will have and I told him, I will have the finest team that anybody has put together and we will solve a lot of problems. 
But, we have no idea who these people, and what they're going to be, and what they're going to represent. 
Number one, you have people in this country that...you wrote a story on it, and you had to go back and correct it. 
And that's in my economic plans, how I would deal with the prescription drug companies, how I would deal with college, how I would deal with a full range of issues that I've been talking about throughout this campaign to go further. 
Yes, well, first of all first of all, Paul Krugman, Barney Frank, others have all endorsed my plan. 
If you're successful there, maybe you can build even more. 
Imagine a country where the middle class can get rising income again. 
Wolf, you sit up here and you listen to this stuff, and you think that so many of these people have had so much to do in this national debate, they talk like they were bystanders. 
Well, let me just tell you about eminent domain because almost all of these people actually criticize it, but so many people have hit me with commercials and other things about eminent domain. 
And what I have said is I will not throw us further into debt. 
We have to support the fighters on the ground, principally the Arabs and the Kurds who are willing to stand up and take territory back from Raqqa to Ramadi. 
I will be the vessel through which they can fix this country, but it's not about me. 
There are a lot of people living paycheck to paycheck in Florida as well, they're looking for a senator that will fight for them each and every day. 
It is a constitutional right of every American to be able to protect themselves and their families. 
And if we do not get our act together and listen to what the scientists say, you're going to see countries all over the world -- this is what the CIA says -- they're going to be struggling over limited amounts of water, limited amounts of land to grow their crops ask you're going to see all kinds of international conflict. 
Well, that creates an environment that's toxic in our own country. 
Well, I'm very proud of the Iran Nuclear Agreement. 
Why, for the life of me, I do not understand why did we stop doing vocational education in America, people that can work with their hands; people you can train to do this work while they're still in high school so they can graduate ready to go work. 
And by the way, I hope we can end the trade embargo with Cuba as well. 
So the issues like that, issues like that are planted to divide us. 
And we need to have better cooperation by the way with local law enforcement. 
At a town hall meeting today, someone came told a story of their father who looked like he was 85. 
We don't need Hillary Clinton's price controls for again, does anybody out there think that giving Washington, D.C., the opportunity to run the pharmaceutical industry is a good idea, given how well they have done running the government? 
And by the way, I've hired and by the way, I've hired tens of thousands of people over at my job. 
And so I think the American people will know it's an absurdity. 
Look, let me just tell you something, Jeb Jeb is so wrong. 
And we need to to choose the right choice, not these false choices. 
I didn't want to go into Iraq, and I fought it, because what I said what I said...was you're going to you're going to destabilize...the Middle East, and that's what happened. 
We can talk all we want about wanting to build a stronger Democratic party, but Lester, the question you answered, it's no laughing matter. 
The problem with the executive order is it is unconstitutional. 
The World Trade Center came down because Bill Clinton didn't kill Osama bin Laden when he had the chance to kill him. 
It's so dysfunctional under Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. 
I think he would have said bring back a 21st-century Glass-Steagall legislation. 
Tonight, you sit at home in your living room, frustrated that you play by the rules, you pay the taxes, you do the hard things to raise your family, yet you feel like America's generosity is being taken advantage of. 
I believe that when we have some 300 million guns in this country, I believe that when we have seen these horrific mass killings, not only in San Bernardino, but in Colorado and movie theaters in Colorado, I think we have got to bring together the vast majority of the people who do in fact believe in sensible gun safety regulations. 
And let me tell you what we've done in New Jersey, Josh. 
And if Donald tried to did it, Hillary would turn to Donald and say, "but gosh, Donald, you gave $100,000 to the Clinton foundation. 
A rising tide lifts all boats, not just some boats, but all boats. 
The fact is that we don't want to hear about your careers, back and forth and volleying back and forth about who did well and who did poorly. 
But it all begins by taking away their their safe operating spaces with a ground force that a U.S.-led coalition takes on. 
I would choose Nelson Mandela for his generosity of heart, his understanding of the need for reconciliation. 
Those are the issues that the American people want discussed. 
I met young people who are desperately trying to get clean and have nowhere to go, because there are not enough facilities. 
I called him that evening because I respect him very, very highly. 
A 100, 150 years ago incredibly brave Americans said, you know what, working class kids, low income kids should not have to work in factories or on the farms. 
One, work with the tough men, the dictators, for our own benefit and promote democracy. 
And they're looking around them, and they're looking at Washington, and they're saying the rich are getting much richer, I'm getting poorer, what are you going to do about it? 
We must not get involved in perpetual warfare in the Middle East. 
And we have been very effective with our Joint Terrorism Task Force, being able to make busts. 
With Congress, you have to get everybody in a room, and you have to get them to agree. 
And let me know President Obama is violating federal law...by not handing over the side deals, and we ought to see the United States Congress...
Anybody who tells me that we need every penny and every one of those is in a fantasy world. 
You can't get by on $11,000, $12,000, $13,000 a year. 
I only had one little interchange I only had one little interchange, and that was four weeks ago, when she said I was sexist. 
We have a lot of work to do in New Jersey, but I am darn proud we've brought our state back. 
They're trying to prevent people from registering to vote. 
Well, I can't think of anything more of an outsider than electing the first woman president, but I'm not just running because I would be the first woman president. 
I'm going to debate Secretary Clinton, Governor O'Malley, on the issues facing the American people, not Bill Clinton's personal behavior. 
And let us be clear that every proposal that I have introduced has been paid for. 
Because that person should not have gotten a gun, should not would not have passed a background check. 
When you are letting people in, when the FBI can't vet them, it puts American citizens at risk. 
I think with this kind of barbarism and nihilism, it's very hard to understand, other than the lust for power, the rejection of modernity, the total disregard for human rights, freedom, or any other value that we know and respect. 
Trying to figure out which one is tougher on immigration in order to appeal to the majority of Republicans. 
An inspiration to everyone when we think about our responsibility to love our neighbor as we love ourselves. 
I think he mentioned me and my record in there, so I think I get a chance to respond. 
I am very proud, if my memory is not correct I think I am that I have a lifetime and I've been in Congress a few years a lifetime 100 percent pro-choice voting record. 
See, when you're a governor, you have to take responsibility for these things. 
In the eight years before I became governor, spending was increased 56 percent. 
There have been some good recommendations about what needs to happen. 
We call that the American Dream, although, it's built on the universal dream of a better life. 
Obviously, Mrs. Obama has been a terrific leader when it comes to young people's health, particularly nutrition and exercise. 
I absolutely believe that what is being done is not sufficient. 
If she gets elected, her first 100 days, instead of setting an agenda, she might be going back and forth between the White House and the courthouse. 
but, look, I think people are blowing this up out of proportion. 
So, look, I'm going to love my daughters, I'm going to love them no matter what they do. 
Our country wouldn't be here without John Adams, and he would not have been able to do it without Abigal Adams, so, I'd put Abigail Adams on the bill. 
You know, when I entered this race, all the political pundits said it's impossible; you can't do it because you're not connected with the money. 
Look, the situation is, we need to finish the border. 
You know, 14 percent decrease in the number of people applying for voluntary military service, and I think part of it is because of the way that we treat our veterans. 
And we must deal with all three of these problems. 
At the end of the day, no matter how it's recounted, it will break roughly even. 
I'm talking about parts of Syria, parts of Iraq, where ISIS is, spotting it. 
Well, look, I believe that we've made great progress as a country with the Affordable Care Act. 
When people go to vote in primaries or caucuses, they are voting not only for the president, they are voting for the commander-in-chief. 
If I'm elected president, let me tell you about my first day in office. 
We had all kinds of questions that we discussed and, you know, at the end, I recommended to the president that we take the chance to do what we could to find out whether that was bin Laden and to finally bring him to justice. 
The middle class in this country who's getting plowed over by Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. 
South Korea contributes $800 million a year to that effort. 
And the fact is this is what makes a difference when you're a governor. 
But I also want to create jobs and I want to be a partner with the private sector. 
Jake, there is no more important topic in 2016 than this topic right here, and I've listened to several folks saying, "Well, gosh, if they cheat, we'll act.
Well, the result is, Libya is now a terrorist war zone run by jihadists. 
And I was elected by the Democrats to be chair of the Veterans Committee three years ago, which I'm very proud of. 
Maybe we should focus on quality education with well-paid faculty members. 
She put America's secrets at risk for her convenience. 
And so he undermines the Constitution, and he undermines free enterprise by expanding government, and he betrays our allies and cuts deals with our enemies and guts our military. 
You know, I see a socialist, an isolationist and a pessimist. 
And it is unfair simply to say how much more the program will cost without making sure that people know that, we are doing away with cost of private insurance and that the middle class will be paying substantially less for health care on the single payer than on the Secretary's Clinton proposal. 
We will begin payments next year based on episodes that we have in our lives. 
And you better get rid of them because they are causing a lot of bad decisions to be made by some very good people. 
Exactly right, that we have to defend this nation. 
I think that there are many other reasons why it has in addition to what happened in the region, but I don't think that the United States has the bulk of the responsibility. 
But let me have one area of disagreement with the Secretary. 
I was not only in opposition to NAFTA, I was on the picket line in opposition to NAFTA because I understoodI don't think this is really rocket science. 
My wife Jeanette and I are the proud we've been married 17 years, and we're the proud parents of four children, two of whom were able to join us here this evening. 
And what a sad sight that was: Men, women, children forced out of their homes. 
The most important question is how do we win the general election in November, 2016. 
In a previous Democratic debate, Martha Raddatz, three times, asked Hillary Clinton about the failure in Libya, a policy that she took credit for, and said, "what is your measure of responsibility, Madam Secretary, for the failure in Libya?" 
And when I was chairman, we cut that capital gains tax and we instituted a significant program to get to balance. 
We also must recognize that it's a very complex place. 
In that State of the Union, President Obama didn't so much as mention the 10 sailors that had been captured by Iran. 
Mexico just took Carrier Corporation, maker of air conditioners. 
What he's said is government should pay for everyone's health care, and in fact, a couple of debates ago, he said, if you don't support socialized health care, you're heartless. 
The simple fact is, Donald, you could not take I was asked the question. 
So, you know, experience comes from a large number of different arenas, and America became a great nation early on not because it was flooded with politicians, but because it was flooded with people who understood the value of personal responsibility, hard work, creativity, innovation, and that's what will get us on the right track now, as well. 
is to stand up to the big money interests, and the campaign contributors. 
Look, I have an A plus rating in the NRA and we also have a reduction in gun violence because in Florida, if you commit a crime with a gun, you're going away. 
And it deals with corporate tax rate, and makes it the same as everybody else everybody pays exactly the same. ...
Just last weekend, just last week, a friend asked one of my daughters, "Do you like politics?" 
The bigger banks now have more and more control over over the financial assets of this country. 
What reckless is allowing Russia to come into Crimea and Ukraine. 
But, I believe that the debate, and the discussion has to go further, Anderson, because we've got to do more about the lives of these children. 
We ended up having to withdraw our marines after our barracks were blown up. 
If you look at the threats facing this country, the single gravest threat, national security threat, is the threat of a nuclear Iran. 
You can't just act as if it happened out of nowhere. 
ARRARAS: I am making reference I am making reference to Hispanic voters nationwide in a general election. 
I wouldn't have gone in, however, for the people that did lose their lives, and the families that suffer because of it -- I know this full well because as governor of the state of Florida, I called every one of them. 
You get rid of Obamacare and replace it with something that doesn't suppress wages and kill jobs. 
The last thing we need is to throw our country into a contentious debate about health care again. 
Chris Chris, your state got hit by a massive snowstorm two weeks ago. 
In fact, it's a foreign policy issue because people look at America not solving problems and they say what are they doing over there? 
I have voted time and again to -- for -- for the background check, and I want to see it improved and expanded. 
What Hillary Clinton's going to say, and has said before is, she wants to raise Social Security taxes. 
is to say, look, we have 11 million people who have been here, many of them for decades. 
We need, very clearly, major, major reform in a broken criminal justice system. 
Look I didn't want it was my obligation as a businessman to my family, to my company, to my employees, to get along with all politicians. 
And again, he kept us safe, and I am forever grateful to what he did for this country. 
And I want to do more to help us balance family and work. 
If we've got to win this election, and we can't do it with a candidate who agrees with Hillary Clinton and can't take it to her and beat her on the debate stage and at the polls. 
And there should be a path to earned legal status for those that are here. 
A couple of years ago, when we understood that veterans were not getting the quality care they needed in the timely manner, I worked with folks like John McCain and others to pass the most comprehensive veteran's health care legislation in modern history. 
There should be super sanctions in what President Obama has proposed. 
And the next president of the United States better be someone that understands these issues and has good judgment about them because the number one issue that a president will ever confront, and the most important obligation that the federal government has, is to keep this nation safe. 
As far as other people like in the migration, where they're going, tens of thousands of people having cell phones with ISIS flags on them? 
We can use it to break up the banks, if that's appropriate. 
But the qualification is that I've dealt with people all over the world, been successful all over the world. 
Because what he basically said was we are going to keep doing what we're doing now, and what we are doing now is not working. 
The immediate -- it is not Assad who is attacking the United States. 
We are the only major country on Earth that doesn't guarantee healthcare to all people. 
Ours the story of America is an extraordinary story. 
This country already has a debt problem, we don't need to add to it by electing someone who has experience at running up and destroying the credit rating of his state. 
Let's sit down and talk about what we need to do." 
You just have to look today at Indonesia, bombings all over. 
I know I'm here for the ratings, but it's a little bit ridiculous. 
I have Ryan Tannehill, Marco, as my quarterback, he was 18 for 19 last week. 
That would fix the problem, and also allow, for those 11 million people who are here illegally, a legal status, with citizenship off the table. 
O'MALLEY: I think we need to stop taking our advice from economists on Wall Street...
I was honored to be endorsed by Gun Owners of America...as the strongest supporter of the Second Amendment on this stage today, and I will...fight every day to defend the Bill of Rights. 
And so, everyone can talk us here about their credentials. 
We don't win with the military, we don't' win on the border. 
In fact, what that hurts is hurt hardworking taxpayers. 
I agree, however, it doesn't go far enough, because what it focuses on are the big banks, which Senator Sanders has talked about a lot, for good reason. 
I went to mosques throughout my state to build bridges. 
Absolutely. You know, Rachel, you and I have talked about this before. 
I think Assad is a bad guy, a very bad guy, all right? 
But, but, the fact is we got ourselves in the middle of a civil war. 
Because all those radical terrorist groups that, by the way, are not just in Syria and in Iraq, ISIS is now in Libya. 
But I do believe deeply that all human life is worthy of the protection of laws. 
My position on this whole immigration issue has been clear from the beginning. 
And it is a fact that the net immigration from Mexico and South has basically zeroed out. 
And then, to make a bad situation worse, we have a corrupt campaign finance system where millionaires and billionaires are spending extraordinary amounts of money to buy elections. 
I've seen lots of issues in foreign affairs, and foreign in terms of global politics, you have to be steady. 
I would just say, I debated then Senator Obama numerous times on stages like this, and he was the recipient of the largest number of Wall Street donations of anybody running on the Democratic side ever. 
One other thing that I think we ought to do, along with repealing Obamacare, we need to shift all of this power of healthcare, which is the most egregious form of federal power that is suppressing wages and incomes, and allow governors to have the Medicaid plans so that they can create 21st century Medicaid insurance for people that are stuck in poverty. 
But let's be clear: Russia's aggressive actions in the Crimea and in Ukraine have brought about a situation where President Obama and NATO correctly, I believe are saying, you know what, we're going to have to beef up our troop level in that part of the world to tell Putin that his aggressiveness is not going to go unmatched, that he is not going to get away with aggressive action. 
Every war you can imaging, we have people at each other's throat and our strength is actually in our unity. 
You know, that and that's because of those high wages. 
Well, there are so many, I don't know where to start. 
And you know, there is a reason why, when Harry Reid was asked, of all the people on this stage, who does he want the most, who does he like the most, Harry Reid said Donald Donald Trump. 
When you ran against Senator Obama you thought him naive because he thought it was a good idea to talk to our enemies. 
But, you know, a lot of our problems in the world today is that we don't have the relationship with our allies. 
Well, let's just let's just follow up on this, because, you know, I've made it very clear that no bank is too big to fail, no executive too powerful to jail, and because of Dodd-Frank, we now have in law a process that the president, the Federal Reserve, and others can use if any bank poses a systemic risk. 
I talked about the success in Yuma County, I mean, incredible success, and the Department of Justice said, "No, we don't want to do that. 
And I know how much young people value their independence, their autonomy, and their rights. 
We were discussing disease, we were discussing all sorts of things tonight, many of which will just be words, it will just pass on. 
I am proud that I was the first member of Congress to take Americans over the Canadian border to buy breast cancer drugs for one-tenth the price they were paying in the United States. 
And, you know, I understand that when the mainstream media covers immigration, it doesn't often see it as an economic issue. 
Let me just tell you, they de-value their currencies. 
And we have spent the last hour and five minutes talking about the other 29%, and no time on the 71%, and that makes no sense. 
I did a couple of speeches for them, I do speeches for other people. 
He said, "Well, gosh, the crusades, the inquisitions--" We need a president that shows the courage that Egypt's President al-Sisi did, a Muslim, when he called out the radical Islamic terrorists who are threatening the world. 
And if the Pentagon will work with the veterans' services agencies all across this country, Josh, we can get people jobs and we can get them jobs quickly, get them their health care get them their college education. 
I worry very much about an isolated, paranoid country with atomic bombs. 
I can see why people are angry and scared, because this president has created a condition where our national security has weakened dramatically. 
I had spent 10 years of my life to get us to that point, went out in the private sector, was a great experience, and went into Ohio and took an $8 billion hole and turned it into a $2 billion surplus. 
Are they buying time to continue their bombardment on behalf of the Assad regime to further decimate what's left of the opposition, which would be a grave disservice to any kind of eventual cease-fire? 
There's not a leader that gets somebody to rise up. 
If it's Medicare for all, then you no longer have the Affordable Care Act, because the Affordable Care Act, as you know very well, is based on the insurance system, based on exchanges, based on a subsidy system. 
We don't beat Japan, with their millions and millions of cars coming into this country, in trade. 
Let me just respond to something the secretary said. 
He told the police, "I did it because I was inspired by ISIS," and to this day, the White House still refuses to acknowledge it had anything to do with terror. 
I know the terrorists are constantly seeking it, and that's why we have to stay vigilant, but also united around the world to prevent that. 
And in 2013, when I was fight against the "gang of eight" amnesty bill, where was Donald? 
I know there have been people who have been fired; people who are being held accountable. 
We have allies, so-called allies, we're spending billions and billions of dollars supporting people we have no idea who they are in Syria. 
We will win this election, and we will make the 21st century a new American century.
I think we don't need a complicated system, which the secretary is talking about, the income goes down, the income goes down, if you're poor you have to work, and so forth and so on. 
And, of course, also Japan with ballistic missile technology. 
And I voted a multinational trade agreement when I was senator, the CAFTA agreement, because I did not believe it was in the best interests of the workers of America, of our incomes, and I opposed it. 
He wants to maintain it as a wedge issue and so does Hillary Clinton. 
Many from other countries instead of hiring Americans. 
Literally, the Veterans Administration sent a death certificate to this guy and it took nine months to clarify the guy I met him. 
Jeb goes around saying, just like the biggest business leaders in this country, I've used the laws of the land to chapter I bought a company, I threw it immediately into a chapter, I made a great deal. 
We will make this country greater than ever before. 
You know I understand why Donald made the comments he did and I understand why Americans are feeling frustrated and scared and angry when we have a president who refuses to acknowledge the threat we face and even worse, who acts as an apologist for radical Islamic terrorism. 
There are smart ways to do things and there are muscular ways to do things. 
And second of all, the other point that I would make...Look, this is a disturbing pattern now, because for a number of weeks now, Ted Cruz has just been telling lies. 
Last I heard, a United States senator had the right to disagree with the president, including a president who has done such an extraordinary job. 
And aligned with a corrupt campaign finance system is a rigged economy. 
And when I'm president, I can tell you this, my faith will not just influence the way I'll govern as president, it will influence the way I live my life. 
We can design a system and pay for it that does not put the burden on small businesses. 
To say loudly and clearly," that the government of the United States of America belongs to all of us and not just a handful of wealthy campaign contributors."
And, look I've got a plan to take to Washington, and I will have it there in the first hundred days, and it will include shifting welfare, education, transportation, Medicaid and job training back to us, so we can begin, in the states, to be the laboratories of innovation. 
And it is true it is true, it's not to be denied, I am the longest- serving independent in the history of the United States Congress. 
And if we do not act boldly and decisively, a bad situation will become worse. 
And listen, there is a real difference between Marco's tax plan and mine. 
We have to have economic growth, but once we have economic growth I believe we have to reach out to people who live in the shadows. 
America is no longer a reliable ally, Saudi Arabia. 
But in the interim, in the absence of that, what's happening is some of these tech companies are taking those those centers (ph) to Canada because they can get people to go over there instead of here. 
Then we have ISIS in in Syria, and we have ISIS in Iraq. 
It's the reason why I stood with Jeff Sessions and Steve King and led the fight to stop the Gang of Eight amnesty bill, because it was clear then, like it's clear now, that border security is national security. 
Well, look, you know, when people say that it's always the Republicans or their sympathizers who say, "You can't have paid leave, you can't provide health care." They don't mind having big government to interfere with a woman's right to choose and to try to take down Planned Parenthood. 
We're not protecting and preserving our entitlement system or reforming for the next generation. 
When I think about the folks who are out there at home tonight watching, and I think about what they had to watch this week the spectacle they had to watch on the floor of the House of Representatives, with the president of the United States, who talked a fantasy land about the way they're feeling. 
It could have worked in a different age, which is the age you're talking about here. 
After we've done that, step two would be to modernize our legal immigration system so you come to America on the basis of what you can contribute economically, not whether or not simply you have a relative living here. 
We're going to have something much better, but pre-existing conditions, when I'm referring to that, and I was referring to that very strongly on the show with Anderson Cooper, I want to keep pre- existing conditions. 
The people that call my office, who have been waiting for 15 years to come to the United States. 
I think we can use that in order to keep Putin contained, because he is a one-horse show. 
I've heard a lot about me in this debate, and I'm going to keep talking and thinking about all of you because ultimately, I think the president's job is to do everything possible, everything that she can do to lift up the people of this country. 
It will never happen because they'll let their currency go up. 
And I do think that the bilateral agreement that President Obama made with the Chinese was significant. 
They teach their four- year-old children that killing Jews is a glorious thing. 
I am the son of an Irish-Italian mom and a Cuban immigrant dad who fled oppression and came to America seeking freedom. 
And we are going to have to strike them, not just in Iraq and in Syria, but in every other part of the world where they have now created hubs of operation. 
Well, it'll have to end some day, not immediately, but someday in the future. 
And every time anyone points at Donald's actual record...what he said on national television, Donald yells "liar.
Barack Obama wants America to be more like the rest of the world. 
The reason they're not loving me is, I don't want their money. 
When he talked about change, he wasn't talking about dealing with our problems. 
And you know, there was one commentator that put it this way that, for Marco to suggest our record's the same is like suggesting "the fireman and the arsonist because they are both at the scene of the fire." 
And I also think we've got to do more to stop foreign fighters, foreign funding and take ISIS on online, as well as doing everything necessary to keep us safe at home. 
Well, I don't know about the GOP messaging, but I can tell you about my messaging. 
We have a world that's out of control and has grown dangerous and a president that is weakening our military and making our foreign policy unstable and unreliable in the eyes of our allies. 
And, you know, a lot of people are very much against us getting involved right now with global jihadism. 
I guess I'm part of the establishment Barbara Bush is my mom. 
Well, Maria, thank you for that question, and let me say thank you to the state of South Carolina for welcoming us. 
They continue to develop their nuclear weapons capability, and they're working very hard on their ballistic missile capability. 
And I testified for 11 hours, answered their questions. 
Over the years, I've created tens of thousands of jobs and a great company. 
When I need something from them two years later, three years later, I call them, they are there for me. 
And one are moving because they're not sure what we will do. 
I would rather lose an election than be wrong on the issue of life. 
To talk about we're just gonna have a 10 percent tithe and that's how we're gonna fund the government? 
I turned 18 in 1980, and my first vote was for Ronald Reagan. 
No, I said, " I would use " they were asking me what to do about North Korea. 
My argument is, going forward, the banks have to reserve the capital, so that the so that the people who own the capital start pressuring the banks to not take these risky approaches, Ted. 
His plan is a good plan, and I will note that my 10% plan also eliminates the payroll tax, eliminates the death tax, ...eliminates the business...income tax...10% flat rate...is the lowest personal rate any candidate up here has, and what it would also enable us to do is for every citizen to fill out their taxes on a postcard so we can eliminate the IRS. You know, everyone here talks about the need to take on Washington. 
So what I will tell you about our incentives our incentives are tight, and at the end of the day we make sure that we gain more from the creation of jobs than what we lose. 
That has to be enforced absolutely with consequences for Iran at the slightest deviation from their requirements under the agreement. 
They are going to assess who is level-headed, who has clear vision, who has judgment, who can confront our enemies, who can confront the threats we face in this country, and who can have the judgment when to engage and when not to engage both are incredibly important for a commander-in-chief, knowing how to go after our enemies. 
And here's what I don't understand if you invest that money in a piece of equipment, if you invest that money in a business, you get to write it off your taxes. 
So, we have a country of laws, they're going to go out, and they'll come back if they deserve to come back. 
Someone who has a proven record, who has been tested, who is totally transparent. 
Now, the whole region has been rendered unstable, in part because of the aftermath of the Arab Spring, in part because of the very effective outreach and propagandizing that ISIS and other terrorist groups do. 
Together the heat and light that was put on the State Department was so great that within 36 hours they lifted the ban on air flights into Israel. 
Well, first of all, you know, so many people have said to me, "You need to scream and jump and down jump up and down like everybody else." Is that really what you want? 
I built a net worth of way over $10 billion, and I have done it four times out of hundreds. 
Number two, I want Medicare to be able to negotiate for lower drug prices just like they negotiate with other countries' health systems. 
We're not respected, you know, as a nation anymore. 
First of all, let's have some rules here, commentators. 
Look, two months ago Donald Trump said that ISIS was not our fight. 
That is...really hard to do if you don't have early childhood education...if you don't have schools that are able to meet the needs of the people, or good housing, there's a long list We need a new New Deal for communities of color...
Democrats win when there is a large voter turnout; when people are excited; when working people, middle class people and young people are prepared to engage in the political process. 
There are a lot of problems that are going on, and we need to solve those problems, we need to build up our military...
It increases the per child tax credit, because I didn't read about this in a book. 
And let me tell you what the answer better not be. 
And clearly, what we need to do is get a group of experts together, including people from other countries, some of our friends from Israel, who have had experience screening these people and come up with new guidelines for immigration, and for visas, for people who are coming into this country. 
I would hope that we could all agree that we are sick and tired of seeing videos on television of unarmed people, often African-Americans, shot by police officers. 
It's making people in neighborhoods nervous to go to law enforcement. 
It appears that the same someone who has been whispering in old Marco's ear too. 
We call that the American dream, but in fact, it's a universal dream of a better life that people have all over the world. 
It is to lower our taxes on both people and on companies, so we can make America globally competitive again. 
And we need to start thinking about the needs of the American people before we go and solve everybody else's problems. 
My mother told me if I work hard and I really believed in American principles and I believed in God, anything is possible. 
Well, I would suggest a fair tax system, and that's what we have proposed. 
He's number 11, he's got 1 percent in the polls, and how he got up here, there's far too many people anyway. 
Or dealing with the Islamic terrorism that exists. 
In less than 100 years, it was the number-one economic power in the world. 
And number three, we should work to de-link health insurance from employment so if you lose your job, your health insurance goes with you and it is personal, portable and affordable. 
People know that we need principle-centered leadership, a disrupter to go to Washington, D.C. 
You know, the person who first put out the idea of a 50-state party strategy is former Governor Howard Dean, who is with us tonight. 
To get American young men and women involved in perpetual warfare in the quagmire of Syria and the Middle East would be an unmitigated disaster that as president, I will do everything in my power to avoid. 
Well Maria, thank you for passing on that hit piece in the front page of the New York Times. 
If we were to normalize relations right now, we would remove one of the biggest pieces of leverage we have to try to influence and change Iranian behavior. 
In my family, my dad fled oppression in Cuba to come to America. 
It was designed with Iowa's own Congressman Steve King and Jeff Sessions, and we have the tools in federal law to do this now. 
And what Donald has told us is he will go to Washington and cut a deal. 
And I began speaking out as soon as that happened because there were some fraudulent elections held, and Russians poured out into the streets to demand their freedom, and he cracked down. 
Don't forget they pay in and they pay in, and maybe they do well, and maybe some people want it. 
And what Abdullah said is this is a war with a soul of Islam and that Muslim troops should be on the ground with our support and the support of other major countries. 
No, it speaks to the fact that I don't know those See? 
You know, so this is notthis is not the biggest deal in the world. 
They've declared war on us and we need to have a serious strategy to destroy ISIS. 
And if this will go this will go national, we will get our hands on healthcare where you will know what's going on. 
And this also goes to trust, listening on to campaign trails. 
Because they know that Hillary Clinton will never be prosecuted by this justice department, and they're going to want to put a former federal prosecutor on the stage to prosecute her next September. 
I also believe that marriage is between one man and one woman. 
You wouldn't have the Keystone pipeline that you want so badly without eminent domain. 
My worry is that the real economy has been hurt by the vast overreach of the Obama administration. 
I would begin by saying that I'm not sure it's a weakness, but I do believe that I share a sense of optimism for America's future that, today, is eroding from too many of our people. 
O'MALLEY: John, please, it's-- personal privilege, John. 
We have got to be extremely aggressive in working with China, India, Russia. 
But nobody can deny that as a wartime leader, he rallied the British people when they stood virtually alone against the Nazi juggernaut and rallied them and eventually won an extraordinary victory. 
I couldn't imagine that they were going to find somebody even worse than her, but this president never ceases to amaze. 
They would they would accept the responsibilities of full U.S. citizenship. 
They say, " well, we don't really have control." Without China, North Korea doesn't even eat. 
And, frankly, I watched the first debate, and the first long number of questions were, "Mr. Trump said this, Mr. Trump said that. 
We have to have the political voice, the political grassroots speaking up and speaking out about what we have to try to accomplish in Washington. 
And I'll tell you who supported my amendment Jeff Sessions, the strongest opponent of amnesty in the United States Congress. 
Sometimes they may they may make a remark here or there that we don't like, but frankly, the world needs us. 
Every time we raise the minimum wage, the number of jobless people increases. 
For over 200 years this has been a special country. 
Just to set the record straight, I very strongly supported the agreement which makes certain that Iran does not get a nuclear weapon. 
As far as the minimum wage is concerned, people need to be educated on the minimum wage. 
We ought to have politicians who not only have government experience but know how the CEOs and the job creators work. 
And this is one of the myths that the left perpetrates on our society, and this is how they frighten people and get people to shut up. 
If you are now hit on a 60 percent tax on both your income and on the wages you pay your employees, where are you going to get that money from? 
The D.C. politicians continue to make things worse. 
I governed as a conservative, and I govern effectively. 
I believe that 2016 will be an election like 1980, that we will win by following Reagan's admonition to paint in bold colors, not pale pastels. 
And I think today you see the wisdom of why we don't want that to change. 
And I think if you want to know who actually will secure the borders and follow through, you ought to ask who has a record before they were a candidate for president of fighting to secure the borders and stop amnesty. 
See, in Ohio, we've had some controversial decisions. 
The second element is regulatory reform, pulling back the armies of regulators that have descended like locusts on small businesses. 
I also watched where he did a forum that looked like it came right out of a government agency, and it said on top, "
According to the statistics that I'm familiar with, a black male baby born today stands a one in four chance of ending up in the criminal justice system. 
It's why this Iranian nuclear deal is so catastrophic, and it's why I've pledged, on the very first day in office, to rip to shreds this Iranian nuclear deal so we're not sitting here in five years, wondering what to do about an Iranian missile launch when they have nuclear weapons. 
They're looking they're looking to manipulate our the visa waiver countries to get people into the United States. 
I will not let people die on the streets if I'm president. 
I have two 16-year-old girls, and I want this country to be strong. 
If that was the order, that order would be problematic because it would compromise security and safety for everyone. 
But when it comes to keeping this country safe, the commander in chief has inherent constitutional authority to keep this country safe. 
And and I would note indeed, the reason I said that is I was asked my friend Donald has taken to it as advance playing Bruce Springsteen's "Born in the USA", and I was asked what I thought of that. 
You can campaign, or just resign and let someone else take the job. 
But, we either have a country, or we don't have a country. 
Well, you know, I don't mind trade wars when we're losing $58 billion a year, you want to know the truth. 
But I've heard Senator Sanders comments, and it's really caused me to wonder who's left in the progressive wing of the Democratic Party. 
71 percent of all federal spending is on entitlements and debt service. 
That's what I did as governor of the state of Florida, $19 billion dollars of tax cuts, and it stimulated seven out of the eight years. 
You know, what we do in order to get the information that we need is our business, and I wouldn't necessarily be broadcasting what we're going to do. 
The Chinese are the best way to calm that regime down and get them in a position of where they back off. 
Yes, I believe the world is a safer no, no, I don't believe, I know that the world is a safer place when America is the strongest military power in the world. 
Just the other day, Russia allowed a television camera to see the plans for a drone submarine that could carry a tactical nuclear weapon. 
With regard to John Kerry, I will say John Kerry's foreign policy has been a disaster for decades. 
And I will do everything necessary to keep our children safe. 
It is a simple flat tax where for individuals, a family of four pays nothing on the first $36,000. 
It gets very unruly when he gets off his talking points. 
Let's make the Affordable Care Act work for everybody. 
Republicans tell us we can't do anything except give tax breaks to billionaires and cut Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. 
We need people that know what the hell they're doing. 
So I think, at a time when so many of our kids are desperately looking for constructive activity, where too many of our kids are hanging around on street corners, potentially getting into trouble, I think we need a forceful advocate for the children, for teenagers, for the little children, to deal with the dysfunctional child care system, and I think my wife would do a great job in helping me accomplish those goals. 
What he knows is that the old program covered 20 percent to 30 percent of phone numbers to search for terrorists. 
Obviously, the war in Iraq was a big, fat mistake. 
And when FDR said, "Yeah, it is," that we're going to use all of the resources that we have to create jobs, to build homes, to feed people, to protect the farmers, we are a nation which if we come together there is nothing that we could not accomplish. 
It is true that after George W. Bush nominated John Roberts, I supported his confirmation. 
We have young Americans who owe thousands of dollars in student loans for a degree that doesn't lead to a job. 
And I would then dedicate that money to rebuilding infrastructure here in this country. 
If you care about Israel, you don't write checks to politicians who are undermining Israel. 
I think I think it's fair to say we don't have a disagreement. 
What we need to do is make sure that we are kept safe by having intelligence capabilities, both human and technological intelligence capabilities far superior than what we have today. 
No Republican has ever been elected president of the United States without winning Ohio. 
Now, when I say saturation carpet bombing, that is not indiscriminate. 
Well, I recall very well being on a debate stage, I think, about 25 times with then Senator Obama, debating this very issue. 
I also want to make sure small businesses can start and grow again. 
A good deal maker would never make a deal like that. 
I'm going to tell them right now, I am going to get consensus from Congress and we're going to tax you when those air conditioners come. 
" I didn't say, "just bomb it," I said," take it and use it and distribute it so that the wounded warriors -" People, I've been saying this now for many years. 
And listen, there are many, many wonderful, wonderful working men and women in the state of New York. 
Or, are you going to deal with the problem by saying, I'm going to give people who've done well in this country less benefit on the backend. 
I want to find out why those two young people those two horrible young people in California when they shot the 14 people, killed them people they knew, people that held the wedding reception for them. 
If the proponents of this bill actually demonstrate a commitment not to politics, not to campaigning all the time, but to actually fixing this problem, to finding a middle ground. 
I hate to say it, but we have to leave it the way it is. 
They are radicalizing people in the United States, they are conducting attacks around the world. 
When you became president, you had a Democratic Congress and a filibuster-proof Democratic Senate. 
Well, I think that they're be pretty smart, because I think a lot of the states will do the right thing, and I think those states that don't will pay a heavy penalty. 
So I have an idea of what it's going to take to make our government work more efficiently. 
So when the administration tells me we have a great vetting process, the proof is in the pudding. 
The American people we on this stage need to open our ears. 
That's why I'm running for office because when I become president of the United States, on my first day in office we are going to repeal every single one of his unconstitutional executive orders. 
He directed all of his forces to defeating communism. 
We've rebuilt the economy and rebuilt after the second-worst natural disaster in American history. 
Because so many people in my family worked in steel mills, and they didn't work with a white collar, they worked in a blue collar. 
When when we put all the facts down, you'll be able to see that it's not true, it works out very well. 
[off-mike] I fully, fully concede that Secretary Clinton, who was secretary of State for four years, has more experiencehat is not arguablein foreign affairs. 
One candidate said, you know what, I don't think it's a great idea that we sell automatic weapons in this country that are used by the military to kill people very rapidly. 
And that free education of extraordinary accomplishment was from first grade to 12th grade. 
Everyone is against illegal immigration in a Republican primary. 
It is imposed on business and a critical piece that Marco seems to be missing is that this 16 percent business flat tax enables us to eliminate the corporate income tax. 
What we did is pass a $15 billion dollar piece of legislation which brought in many, many new doctors, and nurses into the V.A. so that veterans in this country could get the health care when they needed it, and not be on long waiting lines. 
He said, "we have the military in the streets right now. 
The government in Jordan is not perfect, but we will have to work with them. 
And I began to speak out about their use of warrantless surveillance and the other behavior that they engaged in. 
You know, Chuck, I've only had responsibility for voting for trade agreements as a senator. 
Yes, we could get rid of Assad tomorrow, but that would create another political vacuum that would benefit ISIS. 
My father and her mom divorced when she was a little girl and she was angry her whole life, and she ended up marrying a man who had been in and out of jail. 
And especially what these programs are asking us to pass that will do nothing to help the environment, but will be devastating for our economy. 
The cost of college education is escalating a lot faster than the cost of inflation. 
You take a look at what happened, as soon as that year ended he got out, Florida crashed. 
Medical marijuana on the ballot was opened up, there was a huge loophole, it was the first step to getting to a place. 
Bad by those in the Senate who voted for it and if I'm president, we'll make our intelligence community strong, and won't have to keep everybody out, we're just going to keep the bad folk out and make sure they don't harm us. 
And it costs, with dynamic scoring, less than a trillion dollars. 
We now have a lack of readiness that is quite scary. 
And I have a detailed plan to do just that, including controlling the border, dealing with the visa over-stayers, making sure that we have a path to legal status, not to citizenship, for those that come out from the shadows and pay a fine, learn English, don't commit crimes, work and pay taxes. 
Radical Islamic terrorism came into effect even more so than it has been in the past. 
Well, I think Mr. Putin is going to regret what he is doing. 
Why does the fossil fuel industry pay spend huge amounts of money on campaign contributions? 
And it also will push whoever the nominee is into the spotlight. 
Well, for a start it means that police officers should not be shooting unarmed people, predominantly African-Americans. 
But the greatest gains, percentage-wise, for people, are gonna be at the lower end of our plan, and here's why: because in addition to a general personal exemption, we are increasing the per-child tax credit for working families. 
What we ought to do is raise the capital requirements so banks aren't too big to fail. 
Now, I also want to respond to several folks up here who said we should trust this Iranian deal, see if the Iranians will comply. 
It looked like he was looking right at me, right there. 
So, I represented New York, and I represented New York on 9/11 when we were attacked. 
I wanna tell you, in my state, we took Medicaid, the hardest program to control, and we took it from a 10 percent growth rate to 2.5 percent without taking one person off the rolls or cutting one single benefit. 
Well, they most certainly will have to be worked on to provide more than what they are doing now. 
And you know, as we're headed to November, we need no nominate a Republican candidate that can lay out a clear difference with both Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton on foreign policy. 
I think it's up to Mitch McConnell and everybody else to stop it. 
Heck, find me a Republican in Congress that would cut spending ten dollars. 
And I I supported him because I think people, when you're elected, you need to do things. 
You listen to them, what they want to do to Social Security, none of these folks are getting elected, O.K., whether they can do it or not. 
I have a plan that would not only cut taxes, lower the income tax rate for individuals, lower the tax for businesses so businesses will compete here and not move operations overseas, and also a plan the only plan of anybody standing on this stage to get us to a balanced budget by the end of a second term. 
A radical Shia cleric in Iran trying to get a nuclear weapon, the Chinese taking over the South China Sea 
ISIS is created and formed because of the abuse that Assad and his Iranian sponsors have rained down on the Sunnis in Syria. 
I will do my best to transform our trade policy and take on these corporations who want to invest in low-income countries around the world rather than in the United States of America. 
It isn't because of the central planners in Washington D.C. 
When I'm president of the United States, we are going to win this war on ISIS. 
Not to take an elderly woman's home to build a parking lot so that high-rollers can come from New York City to build casinos in Atlantic City. 
But the other thing I just wanted quickly to say is, I think President Obama deserves more credit than he gets for what he got done in Washington, despite the Republican obstructionists. 
And it has been a remarkable situation in our state. 
What kind of country they will be able to raise their families in. 
But I want smaller doses over a longer period of time. 
And with respect to my own husband, I am probably still going to pick the flowers and the china for state dinners and stuff like that. 
And you want to know why Moammar Gadhafi started cooperating on his nuclear program? 
Well, first of all, I think it would be a pretty easy contrast, quite frankly, between myself and Hillary Clinton. 
Just the other day, two years old, two and a half years old, a child, a beautiful child went to have the vaccine, and came back, and a week later got a tremendous fever, got very, very sick, now is autistic. 
I voted for Dodd-Frank, got an important amendment in it. 
We brought together legislation supported by the American Legion, the VFW, the DOD, Vietnam Vets, all of the veterans organizations, which was comprehensive. 
I stood on the stage and watched Marco in rather indignantly, look at Governor Bush and say, someone told you that because we're running for the same office, that criticizing me will get you to that office. 
This campaign is about the greatest country in the world and a president who has systematically destroyed many of the things that made America special. 
How do we allow people to ascend the ladder of opportunity, rather than how do we give them everything and keep them dependent? 
And we keep young people on our policies until they turn 26. 
A hundred ninety-two thousand private sector jobs in the five and a half years I've been governor. 
It's that they don't want to enforce the immigration laws. 
We will rebuild the military to make sure that it is a solid force, not to be the world's policeman, but to make sure that in a peaceful world, people know that the United States is there to take care of our own national interests and take care of our allies. 
I want to use pell grants to help defray the living expenses that often make a difference, whether a young person can stay in school or not. 
We are stronger when we work with the Western civilization, our friends in Europe, and just doing it on our own I don't think is the right policy. 
This election is not only about electing a president. 
A lot of times that's all of his donors and special interests out there. 
I'm a dad to two little girls who are the loves of my life, Caroline and Catherine. 
When millions of Americans rose up against Planned Parenthood, I was proud to lead that fight. 
So dad's $500 short, mom can give it to him or a cousin or uncle. 
You also have to prove that you're going to pay these people more than you would pay someone else, so that you're not undercutting it by bringing in cheap labor. 
And you get rid of the deductions, you get rid of all the loopholes, and...
And Mexico's going to pay for the wall because Mexico I love the Mexican people; I respect the Mexican leaders but the leaders are much sharper, smarter and more cunning than our leaders. 
We have to be firm, and we've got to unite those people in that part of the world to stand firmly against North Korea, and make sure we have the ballistic ballistic missile technology to defend ourselves. 
She is not qualified to be President of the United States. 
And they are going to make it of each and everyone of us. 
It's really a question for all of us to answer, every single one of our children deserves the chance to live up to his or her god-given potential. 
I like Chris Christie, but we can not afford to have a president of the United States that supports Common Core. 
Even the late, great Senator Paul Wellstone would not fit this definition because he voted for DOMA. You know, we have differences and, honestly, I think we should be talk about what we want to do for the country. 
Lift Americans, unify, give hope, grow America, and restore it is to that great, shining city on a hill. 
First, we should pass the Expatriate Terrorist Act, legislation I've introduced that says if an American goes and joins ISIS and wages jihad against America, that you forfeit your citizenship and you can not come in on a passport. 
It's perfectly legal in this country to change your mind. 
I'm running because we need to address the planetary crisis of climate change and take on the fossil fuel industry and transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy. 
You look at New Hampshire with the tremendous problem we have with heroin. 
But Ted very, very strongly pushed Judge Roberts, and Justice Roberts gave us something that we don't want. 
I never said that Ms. Davis should either lose her job or that she had to do it. 
Social Security, which Republicans call a Ponzi scheme, may face privatization. 
And as you understand, I mean, you understand very well from the Wall Street Journal, currency manipulation is the single great weapon people have. 
That is total propaganda, and this is what happens in our society. 
Because if your faith causes you to care for the less fortunate, it is something you want to see in your public figures. 
In the Senate for nine years caucused with the Democrats, of course. 
Well, and I don't he may have lined up with their positions on this issue. 
I'm the son of a pastor and evangelist and I've described many times how my father, when I was a child, was an alcoholic. 
See, when you are old, then they go back all these years. 
And so, that's why I'm for rehabilitation, why I think the war on drugs has been a failure. 
And having been in New Hampshire and here in Iowa, but in New Hampshire, I just received the support of seven out of eight of the newspapers in that state because they see positive, they see unity, they see coming together, and they see a record of change and a record of accomplishment. 
I'm the only person on this stage who spent seven years as a United States Attorney after September 11th, and I know how to do this. 
We are about to leave our children with $18 trillion in in in debt, and they're about to raise the debt limit again. 
And we can take that message and that formula to Washington to lift every single American to a better life. 
We went from $1 billion of reserves to $9 billion of reserves. 
In fact, the only budget you have ever voted for, Ted, in your entire time in the Senate is a budget from Rand Paul that brags about how it cuts defense. 
If you send a tie or a shirt made in China into the United States and an American goes to buy it at the store and there's a tariff on it, it gets passed on in the price to price to the consumer. 
You know, I became a grandmother 15 months ago, and so I spent a lot of time thinking about my granddaughter's future. 
We don't want to throw millions of people out into the cold and not have the health insurance, Dana. 
If you're worried about the world being on fire, you're worried about how we're going to use our military, you're worried about strengthening our military and you're worried most of all about keeping your homes and your families safe and secure, you cannot give Hillary Clinton a third term of Barack Obama's leadership. 
The first thing we have to do is grow the economy, and I know the formula because I was chairman in Washington when we balanced the budget and created so many jobs, and the same that we've been able to do in Ohio. 
And I assume when he sees that interview, maybe he forgot about it, but I assume Donald will apologize where he sees that he said exactly that. 
Chuck, I believe in trade, but I do not believe in unfettered free trade. 
Insecure in their future and unsafe in the face of terrorism. 
I served on the Armed Services Committee for 18 years and we must lead, or the job won't get done, unfortunately, for our country I don't understand this thing about Assad. 
I'm going to support you, and I think that is absolutely appropriate. 
But where we disagree is the comments that Senator Sanders has made that don't just affect me, I can take that, but he's criticized President Obama for taking donations from Wall Street, and President Obama has led our country out of the great recession. 
We have to work with NATO to protect Eastern Europe against any kind of Russian aggression. 
What we need to think about is, what does that do to the average person? 
And we've got 645 different federal agencies and sub-agencies. 
And God only knows Saddam Hussein was a brutal dictator. 
So I'm not going to let Syrian refugees, any Syrian refugees in this country. 
There's so much that can be done, but I don't trust Washington to do it. 
And I have laid out specific plans -- you can go to my web site, hillaryclinton.com, and read the details. 
And if you become the nominee, who the hell knows if you can even serve in office? 
Absolutely, I do, and I'm gonna run hard, run with heart, and run to win. 
I hope they know that if I'm president, I'll be a commander-in-chief, not an agitator- in-chief or a divider-in-chief, that I will lead this country in a way that will create greater security and greater safety. 
ISIS, we can't even knock out ISIS, and we will, believe me. 
We don't represent Wall Street, we don't represent the billionaire class, so it ends up 
I didn't believe that for a second because I understood what the function of NAFTA, CAFTA, PNTR with China, and the TPP is, it's to say to American workers, hey, you are now competing against people in Vietnam who make 56 cents an hour minimum wage. 
Six hundred and fifty federal agencies and department (sic). 
In my view, we have got to see that weapons designed by the military to kill people are not in the hands of civilians. 
But just think about this-- since we last debated in Las Vegas, nearly 3,000 people have been killed by guns. 
I want to see working people and young people come into the party in a way that doesn't exist now. 
If I'm president, America will stand unapologetically with the nation of Israel. 
If it's not in the Constitution, it does not belong to the federal government. 
We can never let the American taxpayer and middle class families ever have to bail out the kind of speculative behavior that we saw. 
Prior to that, in the Reagan Library, I gave a detailed plan. 
And I was determined to do everything that I could to make VA health care the best in the world, to expand benefits to the men and women who put their lives on the line to defending. 
And I know how to find common ground, and I know how to stand my ground, and I have proved that in every position that I've had, even dealing with Republicans who never had a good word to say about me, honestly. 
But you can have all of the growth that you want and it doesn't mean anything if all of the new income and wealth is going to the top 1 percent. 
Let me do that but let me pick up on an issue, a very important issue that we have not yet discussed. 
All I can say is, you're lucky in Ohio that you struck oil. 
The questions that are being asked shouldn't be trying to get people to tear into each other. 
Well, let me tell you what has happened a couple of years ago. 
It's because we have a campaign finance system that is corrupt, we have super PACs, we have the pharmaceutical industry pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into campaign contributions and lobbying, and the private insurance companies as well. 
Since he's given up on working with Congress, he thinks he can impose anything he wants. 
This whole discussion began because I commented, not making overall evaluation about the Secretary. 
And I support what President Bush did at that time, going into Afghanistan, hunting al Qaeda and its leaders, getting its sanctuary out of place, and making it as difficult around the world for them to move people and money. 
OK. I was mentioned just because of the hispanic and I'll be brief. 
Chris, first of all, I was just saying to Chris Christie, they say we're outspoken, we need to take lessons from Donald Trump if we're really going to learn it. 
It's not a lack of competence that is preventing the Obama administration from stopping these attacks. 
Maybe that is normal politics in Washington, but that is not the politics of higher purpose that people expect from our party. 
Causing this vacuum that has been filled unfortunately, by terrorist groups, including ISIS. 
But what the DNC did arbitrarily without discussing it with us is shut off our access to our information crippling our campaign. 
But I am conscious of the fact that we have to also be very clear, especially with young people, about what kind of government is going to do what for them and what it will cost. 
And by the way and by the way...and by the way...I've won most of the lawsuits. 
I mean, people at home want to know across this country, they want to know what we're going to do to fix this place, how we'll balance a budget, how we're going to create more economic growth, how we'll pay down the debt. 
And I think also that Ronald Reagan was a master at understanding that a pinnacle nation has to be a nation that leads. 
The deployments are too high for the military personnel. 
But I will be putting I will be putting up, you know, tremendous amounts of money. 
We grew up in a three-and-a-half-room, rent controlled apartment in Brooklyn, New York. 
And I don't think we should confuse what we have to do every so often in America, which is save capitalism from itself. 
You know, the Chinese are there, as well as the Russians, and you have all kinds of factions there. 
And you asked about economic growth the nonpartisan Tax Foundation estimated a simple flat tax that would produce 4.9 million new jobs, it would increase capital investment by 44 percent and would lift everyone's income by double digits. 
There are brave men and women who happen to be Muslim Americans who are serving this country in uniform and who have died in the service of this country. 
But the president needs to be laying the groundwork right now for the ability to slap those sanctions back on worldwide. 
And I would vote yes because I am seeing in this country too many lives being destroyed for non-violent offenses. 
And tonight, he's come out with a new health care plan. 
I looked at ways that the shareholders would have more control over what was going on in that arena. 
Their previous governor, Louis Fortuno was doing a great job until he barely lost that election to to someone who has taken a big government stance once again...
For over 200 years, America's light has been shining on the world and the world has never been the same again. 
And look, what I want you to know is I'm going to send a lot of power, money and influence back to where we all live. 
Well, I've been leading the fight in the Senate to triple the Border Patrol, to put in place fencings and walls, to put in place a strong biometric exit/entry system...
This is the lie that Ted's campaign is built on, and Rand touched upon it that he's the most conservative guy, and everyone else is a you know, everyone else is a rhino. 
John Kerry Senator Rubio voted to confirm John Kerry as secretary of State. 
The time has come to stop ignoring the mentally ill in this country and begin to treat them and get them on their feet, along with, of course, with treating the drug-addicted. 
It's not for them to make those decisions about whether or not something is legal or illegal, or profiling or not. 
The focus ought to be on the single fact that Hillary Clinton wants to double down on a failed foreign policy and we need to be united to defeat that because we're going to be in a place that is far less secure than it is today. 
And I'll allow putting that tariff or whatever he's saying here...
" We are going to be loyal to our allies like Israel, not enemies like Iran. 
I think that, like most people that I know, I have a range of views, but they are rooted in my values and my experience. 
If we do that, it's going to create a healthier deterrent effect than anything else I can think of. 
It's actively getting involved to topple a government. 
She put American intelligence officers at risk for her convenience. 
And if we actually sit down and talk with them and get them to understand our plan and their impression of what needs to be done, I think we're going to make a lot more progress. 
I'm not my campaign is going to be about the future of America, it's not going to be about attacking anyone else on this stage. 
And the way you expand it is by lifting the cap on taxable incomes so that you do away with the absurdity of a millionaire paying the same amount into the system as somebody making $118,000. 
And so when we empower Iran, this is why this president and when Hillary Clinton says her theory against ISIS will be just about the same as the president, then get ready for more unrest and more murder and more violence in the Middle East. 
Yes look, I have made it clear based on Senator Sanders' own record that he has voted with the NRA, with the gun lobby numerous times. 
You're never going to be president of the United States by insulting your way to the presidency. 
And there's no way that you can raise what you need in order to compete successfully. 
And my proven record as governor makes will give you a sense that I don't make false promises. 
We're not going on win by doing what Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton do each and every day. 
Our waste water plants, our rail, our airports, in many places are disintegrating. 
Yes, we could get rid of Gadhafi, a terrible dictator, but that created a vacuum for ISIS. 
No, they don't like he beats the rest of the field, because they want me. 
But the pundits forgot about one thing, and that is the people. 
You have small businesses in America that are struggling. 
It is a different, fundamental military strategy than what we've seen from Barack Obama. 
The enemy makes a change, and all of a sudden you have to change. 
And somebody like a Trump comes along and says, "I know the answers. 
We have to take their energy because they are ISIS is the richest terrorist organization there is. 
We need a commander in chief who does what Ronald Reagan did with communism, which is he set out a global strategy to defeat Soviet communism. 
We need to re-establish the relationships with the Sunnis. 
Because, I'll tell you, you keep kicking the can down the road we're going to face this sooner or later. 
Every effort that he has made, that some of us have made, they have said no, no, no. 
In 1988 the Republican did win, I believe, by 3 points. 
When President Obama came into office we were losing 800,000 jobs a month, 800,000 jobs a month. 
You have to deal with entitlements, you have to be in a position to control discretionary spending. 
This is a group of people that enslaves women and sells them, sells them as brides. 
Eminent domain is an absolute necessity for a country, for our country. 
You get joint intelligence with our European friends. 
I waited until it had actually been negotiated because I did want to give the benefit of the doubt to the administration. 
How tough it is to take away property from an elderly woman? 
I think those are exactly the people you have to talk to and you have to negotiate with. 
Yes, they will keep preexisting conditions, and that would be a great thing. 
...We're going to have many different plans because...competition...There is going to be competition among all of the states, and the insurance companies. 
Workers today are working longer hours for lower wages. 
To subject my wife into the middle of a raucous political conversation was completely inappropriate, and I hope you apologize for that, Donald. 
He didn't talk about the fact that he pays almost no interest. 
If you are below the midpoint, we are going to give you a financial reward for allowing you to provide services that result in high quality for our people at lower pricess. 
This committee has spent $4.5 million of taxpayer money, and they said that they were trying to figure out what we could do better to protect our diplomats so that something like Benghazi wouldn't happen again. 
Every year, because of the size of my company, which is very, very large, I'm being audited which is a very large company. 
And everything is costing more money, and we are killing our our our people like this. 
That's the truth of the matter and you see it every time with this president. 
But if you invest it in your children, in the future of America and strengthening your family, we're not going to recognize that in our tax code? 
Well, let me tell you, Jake, the single biggest national security threat facing America right now is the threat of a nuclear Iran. 
They will also have to pay 16 percent on the money they pay their employees. 
You will begin to see jobs created in a robust economy. 
Yeah, but II think it's fair to really ask what's behind that comment. 
He's missing the whole point, that America's leadership in the world is required for peace and stability. 
You get in and you change every aspect of regulations that are job killers. 
And Megyn, it's best not to talk anymore about back doors and encryption, it will get solved, but it needs to be solved in the situation of the White House with the technology folks. 
If your eyes are glazing over like mine, this is what it's like to be on the floor of the United States Senate. 
And let me go back to the earlier discussion a minute ago. 
And the problem, Maria, is that the military is not ready, either. 
And in Florida, based on what we did, we made that impossible. 
That's basically bordering on a miracle because of our great prison director. 
It would be very difficult to administer, it needs to be part of a comprehensive immigration reform, when we finally do get to it. 
There is nothing that we are allowed to do under this bill that we could not do before. 
Well, first of all, let me just mention on the tax issue. 
And I'm sure, in the back of their mind, they were just saying, if we can just hold on, help is on the way. 
And if we want to try to rebuild the coalition, as Governor Kasich was saying before, then what we better do is to get to the Arab countries that believe that ISIS is a threat, not only to them, but to us and to world peace, and bring them together. 
Now, thank God, my father was invited to a Bible study and became born again and he came back to my mom and me and we were raised together. 
As you too know, I know I built a very great company. 
Well, because she's been sitting for three hours, I think my daughter, Ivanka, who's right here. 
I use to sit on the porch of our home and listen to my grandfather tell stories as he smoked one of three daily cigars. 
I cannot walk down the street Secretary Clinton knows this without being told how much I have to attack secretary Clinton, want to get me on the front pages of the paper, I'd make some vicious attack. 
And because of the budget cuts we are facing in this country, we are going to be left with the oldest and the smallest Air Force we have ever had. 
We have got to stop worrying about being loved and start worrying about being respected. 
I think we should be for free trade but I think fair trade. 
Rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure, creating 13 million jobs, the American people want it. 
See, I was there when Reagan rebuilt the military. 
One out of three African American men may well end up going to prison. 
And they will use Common Core or any other requirements that exists nationally to force it down the throats of our people in our states. 
You know, before it was called Obamacare, it was called Hillarycare. 
I've got the most comprehensive legislation in the Senate to do that. 
So at the beginning, I said openly to everybody that I contribute to many, many politicians, both Republican and Democrat. 
I was so happy yesterday when I saw that decision come down. 
But those Muslim countries are going to have to lead the effort. 
And what was amazing in that exchange that was missing is for decades Donald has been advocating socialized medicine. 
We agree that Wall Street should never be allowed to wreck Main Street again. 
First, let's explain to people at home who the triad what the triad is. 
The increasing globalization without any real safety valve for people to have a better life. 
I think we need to do a lot more than we're doing. 
You see, all of my career, I've fought about giving voice to the people that I grew up with and voice to the people that elected me. 
We have to get back into looking at what's causing it. 
We have to find out many people knew about what was going on. 
There is broad consensus, 92 percent in the most recently poll of Americans want gun safety measures...and 85 percent of gun owners agree. 
And I will tell you this: Atlantic City, I've made a tremendous amount of money in Atlantic City. 
I believe that countries like Saudi Arabia and Qatar have got to step up to the plate, have got to contribute the money that we need, and the troops that we need, to destroy ISIS with American support. 
I was the one saying you're going to wreck the economy because of these shenanigans with mortgages. 
If you're a criminal, obviously, you will not be able to stay. 
But one of the best pieces of advice she gave me was, you know, the issue is not whether or not you get knocked down. 
The Egyptians, the Saudis, the Jordanians, the Gulf states, they all know they're at risk. 
And look, I've appointed over a hundred judges as governor. 
They're leaving because of taxes, but they are also leaving because they can't get their money back and everybody agrees, Democrats and Republicans, that is should come back in. 
You have got to pick somebody who has experience, somebody that has the know-how, the discipline. 
Well, first of all, let me just address the Iraq question. 
Chris there was a question about foreign policy, by the way, and experience. 
Look at what I am proposing, andwe have a vigorous agreement here. 
You know, we've both seen at home when Washington politicians say about an illegal, or unconstitutional program. 
Hillary Clinton this week said Barack Obama would make a great Supreme Court justice. 
Listen, I think that what people should do is use their common sense. 
That is what the next president will have to deal with. 
I would say thatthat folks who have looked at this issue for a long time, whether it's Elizabeth Warren or many other economists, will tell you that right now, yes, we do need a 21st century Glass-Steagall legislation. 
But she wants to embrace the traditional American values that make us special and make us unique. 
And I will prosecute her during those debates on that stage for the record we're talking about here. 
Now that we've gotten the Donald Trump portion out of the way... I want to thank everyone here for showing the men and women of Iowa the respect to show up and make the case to the people of this state and the people of the country why each of us believe we would make the best commander in chief. 
That sounds like people are afraid the president's going to take their guns away. 
Border security is national security and we will not be admitting jihadists as refugees. 
And that's why I've come forward with, for example, a plan to revitalize coal country, the coalfield communities that have been so hard hit by the changing economy, by the reduction in the use of coal. 
And so and I've always made that clear about that cover story. 
We need to make police departments look like the communities they serve in terms of diversity. 
We have to have somebody that's going to make deals. 
We've got to get people moving from part-time work to full-time work. 
Now, there are things we can do to improve it, but to tear it up and start over again, pushing our country back into that kind of a contentious debate, I think is the wrong direction. 
The number of heroin deaths are growing very, very significantly. 
Both Donald and Jeb have good points, and there is a middle ground. 
You know, you have to look at our economic situation. 
And it is the most the federal government does all kinds of things it's not supposed to be doing. 
But, the real issue, I think, that the Senator is injecting into this is that if you had a Super PAC, like President Obama has, which now says it wants to support me. 
There's something I want to I want to point out something here today that is it's so critically important about how the Obama administration has really done such a ridiculous, feckless job here in foreign policy. 
And it also becomes a sanctuary for the people to be. 
Obviously, we were distressed when we learned of it, because we have worked very hard -- I said in the beginning of this campaign, we want to reach as many voters as possible, and we have tens of thousands of volunteers doing that, and entering data all the time to keep up with what people are telling us. 
Now, I am sympathetic to the plight of someone who came here when they were 2 or 3 years old through no fault of their own, but you can't solve it doing something that is unconstitutional. 
There are now dozens of developed economies on this planet that we have to compete with. 
And, yes, people we may disagree with on a number of things may have some insight, may have some relationships that are important for the president to understand in order to best protect the United States. 
And, by the way, the consequence of that is small businesses can't get business loans, and it is that fundamental corruption that is why six of the 10 wealthiest counties in America are in and around Washington, D.C. 
The business flat tax is not a sales tax, it is a tax of 16 percent opposed fairly and evenly across the board on all business. 
Here's the lesson that we should take from this, which relates to this whole subject. 
I gave to many people, before this, before two months ago, I was a businessman. 
So we have a special obligation to make clear what we stand for, which is why I think we should not make promises we can't keep, because that will further, I think, alienate Americans from understanding and believing we can together make some real changes in people's lives. 
But in 2008, we elected a president that didn't want to fix America. 
And we have a president that is more respectful to the ayatollah in Iran than he is to the prime minister of Israel. 
But at the end of the day, what you have right now are millions of Americans working two or three jobs because their wages that they are earning are just too low. 
Not only are deductibles rising, 29 million Americans still have no health insurance and millions of people can't afford to go to the doctor. 
Who can you count on to keep us safer, stronger and freer? 
Because we work with the private sector to make solar energy affordable and available to businesses and individuals in our state. 
I did introduce legislation to reign in compensation. 
These same leaders Obama, Clinton, and far too many Republicans want to topple Assad. 
If you don't have regulatory reform, common-sense regulations, reasonable tax cuts, which I have, and a fiscal plan, you won't get there. 
That is what is going to have to happen, if we want to revitalize and rebuild the crumbling middle class. 
And I think the best evidence that the Wall Street people at least know where I stand and where I have always stood is because they are trying to beat me in this primary. 
We need, and only the three of us will do this, nobody on the Republican side will even admit there's a problem. 
China doesn't pay the tariff, the buyer pays the tariff. 
Wall Street is perhaps the most powerful economic and political force in this country. 
And in terms of seniors, there are millions of seniors and I've talked to them in my state of Vermont and all over this country who are trying to get by on $11,000, $12,000, $13,000 a year Social Security. 
Senator Paul, you know, the hugs that I remember are the hugs that I gave to the families who lost their people on September 11th. 
We must make sure that economic programs and our military programs are solid. 
I went into Ohio where we had an $8 billion hole and now we have a $2 billion surplus. 
And what I believe is that I have a better track record and a better opportunity to actually get that job done. 
We have to figure out how to deal with Iran as the principal state sponsor of terrorism in the world. 
In fact, on this stage, I'm the most pro-life person because I've acted on it for eight years as governor of the state of Florida. 
O'MALLEY: And we did it by leading with principle, not by pandering to the NRA and backing down to the NRA. I don't think I am pandering. 
We're giving young people and working people hope that real change can take place in America. 
So absolutely, I would I would expect Apple to comply with the court order. 
You go south, you're into Chad and Sudan and Niger. 
Let me agree with much of what the secretary said, but where we have a different background on this issue is we differ on the war in Iraq, which created barbaric organizations like ISIS. 
We give people the ability to shift money within their health empowerment account within their family. 
All this damage that he's done to America is deliberate. 
And we have to be sure that they are truly going to implement the agreement. 
Doesn't hurt rich people if their bar of soap goes up ten cents, but it hurts the poor and the middle class. 
It's so ineffectual that the American people say, we don't trust them to do anything anymore. 
This is a country where we speak English, not Spanish. 
You know, it's that people have a sense that you're not going to wait on a president. 
So, in 2014, Barack Obama said he would not take military action against Assad unless it was authorized by the Senate, beginning on the Committee of Foreign Relations, where I am one of its members. 
And the reason is, is that I've been a reformer all of my career, fighting to reform welfare, fighting to reform the Pentagon, also being in a position to balance the budget, because that is very, very hard to do. 
So stay where you are or build in the United States, because we are killing ourselves with trade pacts that are no good for us and no good for our workers. 
But bottom line now, is in America, in the year 2015, any person who has the ability and the desire should be able to get an education, college education, regardless of the income of his or her family. 
Wolf, unfortunately, it's the new normal under Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. 
We know we have to hold this data for a longer period of time. 
And a rebuilt U.S. military is going to destroy these terrorists. 
Number one thing I hear from the people of New Hampshire, who I love, and developed such relationships, we don't win with healthcare. 
Well thanks for the question and congratulations on five million viewers on YouTube, that's quite an accomplishment. 
Major Major, we can't we've got to look, I have got to correct the record. 
So beside reforming that tax code, bringing it down to 25 percent and eliminating those special-interest loopholes that the lobbyists and the lawyers and the accountants have given bring that rate down to 25 percent, but also, a one-time repatriation of that money. 
They got to take a picture with a cardboard cutout of Donald Trump...
What you have now is a very dangerous moment in American history. 
They're tough, they're strong, they're great people. 
The federal government is a limited government, limited by the Constitution, which delineates its powers. 
It was good for the economy and it was a way to rebuke the terrorists who had attacked our country. 
I work with the American Legion, the VFW, the DAV, the Vietnam Vets, and virtually every veterans organization to put together the most comprehensive piece of the veterans legislation in the modern history of America. 
And so, they have been so far, following their requirements under the agreement. 
And if you look at the way they take advantage, it's through currency manipulation. 
From my perspective, we have to prevent the Republicans from rolling back the progress that we've made. 
One of the problems we have had -- I think all Americans understand this, is whether it's Republican administrations or Democratic administrations, we have seen Wall Street and Goldman Sachs dominate administrations. 
One of the things that I was known for is doing things that have not been done before. 
They are a significant presence in Libya, and in Afghanistan, and a growing presence in Pakistan. 
If elected president, I will do everything I can to expand Social Security benefits, not just for seniors, but for disabled veterans, as well. 
So what I say to those people who go to Donald Trump's rallies, understand: He thinks a low minimum wage in America is a good idea. 
He did he did break the law, and I think there should be a penalty to that. 
I'm honored to be here at the Reagan Library, at a place that honors the legacy of a man who inspired not just my interest in public service, but also our love for country. 
So if you happen to be right, you could get the top job at the end of the day. 
I do believe that people who are trying to come to the United States this country has a right to know who they are and why they are coming. 
Well, Megyn, first of all, I'm not sure that that's a correct assessment of my record. 
And right now, I will be putting up a tremendous so far, I've put up less than anybody and I have the best results. 
And so I have a very specific proposal on this and I don't in 60 seconds, I can't describe it all, but it basically turns the program over to states. 
A leader has a sound program, has a good policy, and then brings people together to solve problems. 
But, in the meantime, I'm also aware of the fact that there's 10 million people living in Seoul. 
In fact, frankly, he's complaining about the fact that we're losing some of the most talented people. 
And the tools involve encryption where we cannot hear what they're even planning. 
So I do not accept the belief that the United States of America can't do that. 
And, we're going to have all of this money pour back into the United States. 
That is why they're building an right now, developing long- range missiles capable of reaching the United States, and that is why there's going they're going to use those $100 billion to expand their conventional capabilities and to one day buy or build a nuclear weapon. 
I'm very clear that we have a distinct difference between those of us on this stage tonight and all of our Republican counterparts. 
Some of the bravest people that I had the privilege of working with as secretary of state were our development professionals who went sometimes alone, sometimes with our military, into very dangerous places in Iraq, in Afghanistan, elsewhere. 
The first is, I've never met Vladimir Putin, but I know enough about him to know he is a gangster. 
But I said it, and I said it loud and clear, "You'll destabilize the Middle East.
Second of all what we do, is you raise the minimum wage to living wage, 15 bucks an hour over the next several years. 
So we never said, never said that somebody, a newspaper endorsed us that did not. 
What he said, and he said it in the last, it's simply not true. 
And the proper approach is a president and commander in chief that defends this country and that goes after goes after the terrorists, rather than showing them weakness and encouraging them to target more Americans. 
That makes it well, you don't know a thing about business. 
Absolutely, because what we will do is say, instead of giving tax breaks to billionaires, we are going to create millions of jobs for low-income kids so they're not hanging out on street corners. 
First off, we can do all the great speeches we want but you're not going to succeed unless there is a consensus. 
So, I think what we should do is have an external support system for people once they volunteer and it should follow them throughout their career, should follow them for three years, five years afterwards, a year before they get out, should be working on integrating them back into society, so that they quit on Friday and they start their new job. 
We should be developing oil, and gas, and coal, and nuclear, and wind, and solar, and ethanol, and biofuels. 
I'd say, "General, enforce the law against everyone justly, fairly, and aggressively. 
We have seen in this city a horrendous tragedy of a crazed person praying with people in the coming up and shooting nine people. 
We need to make sure that people understand, as Jeb said before, that if you've done extraordinarily well in this country, do you want them to take more out of your taxes now and think they're gonna give it back to you later? 
Today in America we have more people in jail than any other country on earth, 2.2 million people. 
I saw you on the Senate floor flip your vote on crop insurance because they told you it would help you in Iowa, and last week, we all saw you flip your vote on ethanol in Iowa for the same reason. 
There are real differences among the candidates on issues like amnesty, like Obamacare, like religious liberty, like life and marriage. 
Look, the threat we face from ISIS is unprecedented. 
I just wanted to add, in the previous question, I voted against the USA Patriot Act for many of the reasons that Governor O'Malley mentioned. 
As you've indicated, what is happening in Syria, the number of people, the hundreds of thousands of people who have been killed men, women, 20,000 children, the people who are forced to flee their own country their own country it is unspeakable. 
The reason why we have structural deficits is that more and more people are relying on government and the growth that we don't have makes makes the deficit grow. 
That's wrong for hardworking taxpayers in this country. 
They like General Motors, so they give them a pass. 
Before it was called HillarycareI mean, before it was called ObamaCare it was called Hillarycare because we took them on, and we weren't successful, but we kept fighting and we got the children's health insurance program. 
We need to be absolutely clear about everything that should be done from today to tomorrow, into the future to try to remedy the terrible burden that the people of Flint are barring. 
But when we talk about Wall Street, you have Wall Street and major banks have paid $200 billion in fines since the great crash. 
You see, why are we one of the most generous people in the world no, the most generous people in the world? 
That is how we destroy ISIS, not with American troops in perpetual warfare. 
Rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure, and creating 13 million jobs by doing away with tax loopholes that large corporations now enjoy by putting their money into the Cayman Islands and other tax havens. 
And kind of that's what I see our campaign is about right now. 
A group of national security experts, military intelligence experts, issued a very concerning statement about Senator Sanders's views on foreign policy and national security, pointing out some of the comments he has made on these issues, such as inviting Iranian troops into Syria to try to resolve the conflict there; putting them right at the doorstep of Israel. 
I thought it was appropriate after a very thorough trial that Timothy McVeigh received the death penalty for blowing up the Federal Building in Oklahoma City, killing 168 people, including 19 children in a daycare center. 
I'm not that much of a socialist compared to Eisenhower. 
However, we started a system that had private health insurance. 
So the big banks, they have an army of lawyers, they have an army of compliance officers. 
Well, let me put it this way, there has there have been numerous studies, and they have not demonstrated that there is any correlation between vaccinations and autism. 
And you know, when you see Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and all the Democrats talking about wanting to address the plight of working women, not a one of them mentioned the fact that under Barack Obama, 3.7 million women have entered poverty. 
Do not tell me that I have not shown courage in standing up to the gun people, in voting to ban assault weapons, voting for instant background checks, voting to end the gun show loop hole and now we're in a position to create a consensus in America on gun safety. 
How about we get the government to do what they're supposed to be doing, secure our borders, protect our people, and support American values and American families. 
But as I've traveled around South Carolina, I've noticed something. 
But we have mechanisms in place with the judicial system that will allow us to gain material that is necessary to benefit the nation as a whole or the community as a whole. 
This next (ph) election is actually a generational choice. 
And secondly, I think at the end of the day, that Americans would support a plan like this. 
And listen, people across this country, we recognize our country is in crisis. 
Great ideas, Governor O'Malley, Secretary Clinton, but here's the truth. 
And then on top of that, we've got a corrupt campaign finance system in which millionaires and billionaires are pouring huge sums of money into super PACS heavily influencing the political process. 
I did give a speech at Georgetown where I talked about democratic socialism and foreign policy. 
That's what we need to to, and I laid that out prior to the crisis with the advice of a lot of people, including 12 Medal of Honor recipients that I'm proud that they're supporting my campaign. 
This nation is going to turn the page, and that's what this election should be about, and, as I said at the first debate If I am our nominee, they will be the party of the past, we will be the party of the 21st century. 
Look, I have said I want to be the president for the struggling, the striving and the successful. 
I mean, literally, the Senate what is it, like a French work week? 
We have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on earth. 
We need to get a bipartisan commitment to work together on this. 
We have to come back to the fundamental principles that made America great. 
They can do business with Iran, or they can do business with America, and I am very confident they're going to choose America before they choose the Iranian economy. 
First of all, let me go back to your first question for me. 
And I think what the president has consistently said-- which I agree with-- is that we will support those who take the fight to ISIS. 
There is one major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all people. 
If I'm president of the United States and Congress tries to cut the military, I will veto that in a millisecond. 
Well, first of all, I don't know how he knows what I said on Univision, because he doesn't speak Spanish. 
But Marco, when you signed up for this, this was a six-year term, and you should be showing up to work. 
Any connection maybe to the fact that our people pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs? 
And then, with the revolution against Assad -- and I did early on say we needed to try to find a way to train and equip moderates very early so that we would have a better idea of how to deal with Assad because I thought there would be extremist groups filling the vacuum. 
And I would note that this question really goes you know, Donald says he's being audited. 
Governor Huckabee's exactly right, we need to honor the promises made to our seniors, but for younger workers look. 
When there's a school shooting, how do you get there and help heal a community? 
Let's talk about what we would do as President, and Commander in Chief to make sure the progress continues into the future. ...
The days for the Clintons in public housing are over. 
I want to build on it, get the costs down, get prescription drug costs down. 
And I give you my word, if I am elected president, no service man or service woman will be forced to be on their knees, and any nation that captures our fighting men will feel the full force and fury of the United States of America. 
And I had to confront what so many thousands of others in my region had to confront, the idea I might become a single parent, the idea that my life and my children's life might be changed forever. 
We have to be very careful about making sure about that. 
The fact is -- the fact is, in the eight years before I became governor, taxes and fees were raised at the state level 115 times. 
We can no longer defend all of these countries, Japan, Germany, South Korea. 
And the overall message is that it doesn't result in job loss. 
And indeed, just a couple of years ago, when Harry Reid and Barack Obama came after the right to keep and bear arms of millions of Americans, I was proud to lead the fight in the United States Senate to protect our right to keep and bear arms, and for that reason...
We need to look into Europe, we look at France, we look at Germany and the migrants. 
We will finish the 700 miles of fencing and walls our nation needs. 
Every company, Chris can tell you, every company virtually in Atlantic City went bankrupt. 
The uprising in Syria was not started by the United States; it was started by the Syrian people. 
Strong, powerful men, young and people are looking at that and they're saying what's going on? 
ARRARAS: It is a program that has protected hundreds of thousands of young people that came here when they were children, brought to the U.S. by undocumented immigrants. 
After New Jersey raised taxes on millionaires, we lost, in the next four years, $70 billion in wealth left our state. 
I think he's an intelligent man and will make the correct decision after getting the real facts. 
I don't want them using our Internet to take our young, impressionable youth and watching the media talking about how they're masterminds these are masterminds. 
Ted, you support legalizing people who are in this country illegally. 
Children would be terrified, and it will not work. ...
Now, this statute and the IRS in classic Washington crony fashion had exemptions for lawyers and big fancy accountants, but Sabina had to pay $1,000 an employee. 
I do not expect from someone running for the Democratic nomination to succeed President Obama. 
Maybe a lot of people haven't heard that terminology before. 
We are so big, we are so important that if we get in trouble, the government has to bail us out. 
And of course, I believe in raising the minimum wage and equal pay for work. 
He's been a good governor, and he's a heck of a lot better than his predecessor that would have bankrupted New Jersey. 
The first thing I think we need to do is audit the Fed. 
They're concerned that Washington is so dysfunctional it is holding them back. 
Because I don't think they ought to live in prison or live under a bridge; to treat the drug-addicted so they're not in an in-and-out-of-the-door policy out of the prisons; and to help the working poor so they don't live in emergency rooms. 
He wants America to become more like the rest of the world. 
(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE) ...than even the executive orders that President Obama has signed when I'm president. 
You know, everybody says every election's important, and there's truth to that. 
So, yes, I'd absolutely would go in if he attacked. 
If these politicians went to the beach and didn't do a thing, and we had Saddam Hussein and if we had Gadhafi in charge, instead of having terrorism all over the place, we'd be at least they killed terrorists, all right? 
It matters in terms of growing our economy, balancing budgets, cutting taxes, reforming regulations. 
Maria? ...We've had a 10% reduction in carbon emissions, and it isn't because of Solyndra. 
They don't want to pay 35 percent tax on the way back. 
Once you secure the border, enforcing the law will solve this problem and that will benefit American workers. 
But the differences among us pale compared to what's happening on the Republican side. 
Now, the as far as these fines are concerned, you know? 
I think we have achieved a great deal with the Iranian nuclear agreement to put a lid on the Iranian nuclear weapons program. 
I defeated an incumbent Democrat in 1982; running on the Reagan program, I was the only Republican in America to defeat an incumbent Democrat that year. 
We now are seeing outposts of, you know, fighters claiming to be affiliated with ISIS. 
And yet somehow Ronald Reagan was able to instill in our nation and in our people a sense of optimism. 
The Republicans want to repeal the Affordable Care Act, I want to improve it. 
The governor of the state said vote for anyone but Cruz, and lobbyists spent millions of dollars in attack ads, but I stood and said we should have no mandates, a level playing field, and the people of Iowa put country and our children above the cronyism and corporate welfare We can turn this country around if we get back to the Constitution. 
We will expand it to reach more people and change more lives than ever before. 
As far as Moammar Gadhafi is concerned, by the way, Moammar Gadhafi is the man that killed those Americans over Lockerbie, Scotland. 
Even though there's so much chaos in North Korea right now, there's a lot of reports of uncertainty, and instability in that government. 
Instead you stand and support the national security of America and the alliance with Israel. 
That sort of corporate welfare is why we're bankrupting our kids, and grandkids. 
You've got, according to your to what you said on one of the talk shows, you got Hillary Clinton to go to your wedding because you gave her money. 
And I think future generations will look back at this history of our country and call us barbarians for murdering millions of babies who we never gave them a chance to live. 
Donors, special interests, the people that are putting up the money. 
And what the USA Freedom Act did is it did two things. 
I get along with all of them, and I did a damn good job in doing it. 
I was She is, and so if she, based on conscience, can't sign that that marriage license, then there should be someone in her office to be able to do it, and if the law needs to be changed in the state of Kentucky, which is what she's advocating, it should be changed. 
And we need to do this with our Arab friends and our friends in Europe. 
But go to my website bencarson.com, read about it. 
And for those at the bottom, we've got to do what we can to train them so they can move up. 
I mean, if you're in the business of commerce, conduct commerce. 
Let me concur with the secretary, no question women's rights are under fierce attack all over this country. 
We also got rid of their chemical weapons, which was a big help, and we also went after a lot of the shoulder-fired missiles to round them up. 
Dana, what I said in private is exactly what I'll say here, which is that the judgment that every voter is making of every one of us up here is who has the experience, who has the vision, who has the judgment to be commander in chief. 
I believe we need to help the mentally ill, the drug addicted, the working poor. 
Friends of mine are ordering Kamatsu tractors now because they've de-valued the yen to such an extent that you can't buy a Caterpillar tractor. 
There were numerous people, including the mother, that knew what was going on. 
You know, one of our biggest national security issues is the world looks at us some time, and we look at each other and say, why can't we solve problems? 
One, Senator Sanders voted in 1998 on what I think is fair to call a regime change resolution with respect to Iraq, calling for the end of Saddam Hussein's regime. 
And I will tell you this, around the world, I will not shake hands with, I will not meet with, and I will not agree to anything with a country that says death to us and death to Israel and holds our hostages while we sign agreements with them. 
What I think is clear about this issue to begin with is we're not going to be able to make progress on illegal immigration until first, illegal immigration is brought under control. 
As I understand it, the African-American community lost half of their wealth as a result of the Wall Street collapse. 
O'MALLEY: Martha -- I would just repeat that -- Given the fact that she's a lot smarter than me, yes, she would. 
And there's one other really powerful feature of my plan, which is that it's border-adjustable. 
That's why we have a president that passed Obamacare and the stimulus. 
Yes, tomorrow or Saturday, in fact, is our plan to release them. 
And, as far as Medicare and Medicaid, my main goal is to get rid of Obamacare and put the care back in the hands of ...
Ohio, one of the best growing places in the country I not only did it in Washington, I did it in Ohio, and I'll go back to Washington, and there will be no more silly deals...If I become President because we'll have a Constitutional Amendment to require a federally balanced budget so they will do their job. 
We, the people, can stop that decline, starting right here in South Carolina. 
My sister was a single mom, both of my aunts who were a single moms. 
The biggest problem this world has today is not President Obama with global warming, which is inconceivable, this is what he's saying. 
Whether it's welfare reform and getting something back for the hard-earned taxpayers; whether it's engaging in Pentagon reform and taking on the big contractors that were charging thousands of dollars for hammers and screw drivers and ripping us off; or whether it's taking on the special interests in the nursing home industry in Ohio, so that mom and dad can have the ability to stay in their own home, rather than being forced into a nursing home. 
I agree with everything the Secretary said, but let me just add this, there is a responsibility on the part of the pharmaceutical industry and the drug companies who are producing all of these drugs and not looking at the consequence of it. 
I'll tell you, in my family there are a lot of single moms in my family. 
I've hired tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. 
That's why I helped to create the Children's Health Insurance Program, and I want to support states that are expanding health care and including undocumented children and others. 
Let me just say that you might want to ask the governor of the state of Vermont why he could not do it. 
And so these are important issues, and we should address it. 
But it should have been done four years ago, not now. 
And together, we can solve these problems that hurt us and heal America. 
You look at the kind of damage that two people that two people that got married, they were radicalized they got married, they killed 15 people in actually 15 going to be probably 16 but you look at that and you take a look a good strong look and that's what we have. 
What I did was allowed by the State Department, but it wasn't the best choice. 
So, what we need to be doing is not only reforming criminal justice I have talked about that at some length, including things like body cameras, but we also need to be following the recommendations of the commissioner that President Obama empanelled on policing. 
And in the system that we're putting together, there will be a rebate for people at the poverty level. 
And let me just explain: when a bank is ready to go under and depositors are getting ready to lose their life savings, you just don't say we believe in philosophical concerns. 
You know, when I took on the drug companies and the insurance companies for universal health care coverage, they went after me with a vengeance. 
And they need somebody like me to straighten out that mess. 
And now, as far as North Korea is concerned, you know, Kim Jung Un is an unstable person, but he does understand strength. 
I've actually been in politics all my life, although I've been on that side as opposed to this side. 
You know, my daughters, Caroline and Catherine, came tonight. 
Which means that no longer do you have hedge-fund billionaires paying a lower tax rate than their secretaries. 
And we didn't put a single boot on the ground, and Gaddafi was deposed. 
I a lot of money was raised by a lot of different people that are standing up here. 
I said right from the beginning that we should take no Syrian refugees of any kind. 
But let's just not get so narrow here as to gotcha this or that. 
If you look at foreign policy, every region in the world has gotten worse. 
We need to control the border, we need to do all of this in a comprehensive way, not just going back and forth and talking about stuff 
And he said today that Donald Trump is maybe the best interview there is anywhere that he has ever done. 
But the final thing I want to say about this is the following. 
But what he's touching talking about, I think has got merit. 
In other words, the very rich are getting richer, almost everybody is going getting poorer. 
Now, with that being said, these are the things that happen. 
All that's in that trust fund is a pile of IOUs for money they spent on something else a long time ago. 
I'm going to keep making sure that everything I've done, everything that I stand for is going to be well known. 
And that's the difference between being a governor and having done that for the last six years in New Jersey and being someone who has never had to be responsible for any of those decisions. 
So let's move toward what we should be doing as a nation and follow the values of our immigration history and begin to make it possible for them to come out of the shadows and to have a future that gives them a full chance of citizenship. 
And many of the fights that are going on are not ones that the United States has either started or have a role in. 
And I think that's what we have to start thinking about. 
And I'm the only one on this stage that knew that and had the vision to say it. 
It's an economy that now has placed us in global competition with dozens of other countries around the world. 
It's a human rights issue and it's a difficult issue, because it puts in conflict two competing rights. 
They told us they'd left for the airport; we found out they were having a secret meeting. 
Why didn't they turn those two people in so that you wouldn't have had all the death? 
And why that is important is because if Sunnis are not able to govern themselves in these areas, you are going to have a successor group to ISIS. ISIS is a successor group of Al Qaida. 
And by the way, I've gotta say, after being here, every one of my 100 town hall meetings in New Hampshire were a lot more fun than what I saw here today, were so much more positive. 
Mexico will pay for it, because they are not doing us any favors. 
Our combined business rate puts us among the highest in the industrialized world. 
And I took on the drug companies and I took on the insurance companies to try to get us universal health care coverage. 
But on top of that, today, we rolled out a spending plan. 
But what we need to do is to make sure that we expand our intelligence capabilities. 
We need to come together as a country because we have to realize that America is great, not from the top-down. 
I will rip to shreds the Iranian catastrophic Iranian nuclear deal. 
So states over a period of decades have put their money elsewhere; into prisons, into highways, into things other than higher education. 
Well, thank you very much to CBS and everyone here this evening for giving us another chance to appear before you. 
And it is interesting to me, you know, Republicans give a lot of speeches about how much they love veterans. 
A man who acts that irresponsibly should not stay in power. 
In Wisconsin, you're losing $2.2 billion right now. 
Exports are free of that tax, but all imports pay that 16 percent business flat tax, which means this tax plan would cause jobs to boom, and it would let America compete with China and the world on a level playing field. 
African-Americans who face discrimination in the job market, education, housing, and the criminal justice system. 
Well, look, people still have to get to know me, so I want to spend my time talking about my experience reforming welfare, balancing budgets, cutting taxes, providing economic growth when I was in Washington, turning Ohio around. 
Without a high-growth strategy, our country will never have the resources or the optimism to be able to lead the world, which the world desperately needs our leadership.
And I'll tell you, I'm not going to be taking legal advice from Donald Trump. 
Let's go down a path where we can actually tell people what we will do. 
I have supported a consensus approach to solving this problem wherever it came up. and in 2007 it almost passed when my brother was president of the United States. 
I spent a big chunk of my life studying national security issues and our role in the world. 
For the first time in 35 years, we have more businesses closing than starting. 
The answer is that all of the Mexicans, they're criminals and rapists, we've got to hate the Mexicans. 
He had request for help and he had basically stone walled. 
Who denies that African-American youth unemployment, real, is over 50 percent. 
And you know what, they voted for moderates, they voted with the hope of democracy. 
We need to be doing military exercises if not only Estonia but Latvia and Lithuania. 
So look, in foreign policy in foreign policy, it's strength, but you've got to be cool. 
There's not going to be consensus on this issue until we enforce our immigration laws. 
What is important to understand is we have organizations, whether it is ISIS or Al Qaida, who do believe we should go back several thousand years. 
I think, while it is true that the secretary and I voted differently on the war in Iraq, what is important is that we learn the lesson of the war in Iraq. 
There was a lot of activism on campus -- Civil Rights activism, antiwar activism, women's rights activism -- and I do appreciate the way young people are standing up and speaking out. 
I think Congress would pass a plan to finish the border, guest worker, pay a fine, a path to legalization, and not citizenship. 
So long as big money interests control the United States Congress, it is gonna be very hard to do what has to be done for working families. 
Everyone up here tonight that's talking about reforms, I think and I know for myself I speak to this, we're all talking about reforms for future generations. 
Wolf, I'm going to ask my time not be deducted when he's yelling at me. 
So don't put people in there if you don't want them bombed. 
This is perhaps the most important thing that the next president will do. 
So it was not against ISIS, it was against it was against Assad. 
I would not raise it, specifically because I'm interested in making sure that people are able to enter the job market and take advantage of opportunities. 
I tried to get the Senate to vote to pass Kate's law on the floor of the Senate just one week ago, and the leader of our own party blocked a vote on Kate's law. 
I've received the Tree of Life Award and many of the greatest awards given by Israel. 
The reason we are in the mess we're in, that ISIS has the territory it has, is because of Assad. 
I've laid out a very, very detailed immigration plan on my website, tedcruz.org. 
But one of them that we still have a great difference on, Madam Secretary, is that you are not for Glass-Steagall. 
Europe doesn't have the ability to to to lead forward lead in this regard. 
You also have to get rid of all the deductions and all the loopholes. 
We need to use every every influence possible to get this student back. 
I have looked at -- I have looked at the legislation that Senator Sanders has proposed, and basically, he does eliminate the Affordable Care Act, eliminates private insurance, eliminates Medicare, eliminates Medicaid, Tricare, children's health insurance program -- puts it all together in a big program which he then hands over to the states to administer. 
The Obama economy is a disaster, and the IMF is telling us this is a new normal. 
And so, I do give interviews in Spanish, and here's why because I believe that free enterprise and limited government is the best way to help people who are trying to achieve upward mobility. 
And by the way, this country right now owes $19 trillion. 
And it is outrageous they've only fired one person to date. 
Well, the photographers who were there with us, they wanted to photograph us from the side of the Mexicans, and they went through there, and they were not physically fit people, and they took their cameras and things with them, and shot us from the other side. 
The biggest tax increase happened under the watch of Barack Obama, and spending's gone up. 
The point is, we have to make Congress respond to the needs of the people, not big money. 
And they must be part of our coalition to destroy ISIS and I believe we can get that done. 
The only way we're going to be morale, the only way we're going to keep our promise to seniors is start by following the first rule we should all follow, which is to look at them, treat them like adults, and tell them the truth. 
Now, we freeze non-defense discretionary for eight years. 
And the way I will come at it is to educate people, help people to actually understand that it is that progressive movement that is causing them the problems. 
It had to be bailed out and it nearly destroyed us. 
We ought to be working to improve it and prevent Republicans from both underming it and even repealing it. 
We need to make sure that we keep the country safe. 
But I want to go further, because it was investment banks, it was insurance companies, it was mortgage companies, all of which contributed. 
But the facts and the law here are really quite clear. 
And, the problem with Puerto Rico is it's economy is not growing. 
I think that we have to look at the fact that we lose 90 people a day from gun violence. 
He didn't like that, his campaign didn't like it either. 
And together we make it possible for a new generation of young people to refinance their debt and not come out with debt in the future. 
And the approach that was tried and has been tried now repeatedly over ten years to do this comprehensively, all at once in a massive piece of legislation has no chance of passage. 
We recovered far faster than what people thought because we led. 
That's why they're so angry with the the electorate is so angry with everybody who is involved in government in Washington, D.C. 
If we allow 9,999 Syrian refugees into the United States, and all of them are good people, but we allow one person in who's an ISIS killer we just get one person wrong, we've got a serious problem. 
The questions that have been asked so far in this debate illustrate why the American people don't trust the media. 
It was just finally negotiated last week, and in looking at it, it didn't meet my standards. 
When he and he when he asked when he asked Florida to have casino gambling, we said no. 
But it doesn't do any good to start demeaning the neighbors, because I would love to do something with regard to negotiating peace, finally, for Israel and for their neighbors. 
Because today in America, a third of our kids, after we spend more per student than any country in the world other than a couple rounding errors, to be honest with you, 30 percent are college- and/or career-ready. 
I'm sure that, frankly, I'm absolutely sure that President Obama will try and do it. 
And so on ISIS, let's be clear, the president needs to be a force that is trusted in the world. 
Not too many years ago, Donald did a long interview with Tim Russert. 
And now after seven years of your policies, we have the biggest majority we've had since the 1920s in the House; a Republican majority in the Senate; and 31 out of 50 Republican governors. 
But they were assisting us at least Gadhafi and Mubarak in fighting radical Islamic terrorists. 
And so dealing with the caliphate is important, because it now has spawned other areas. 
This election, we have to decide the identity of America in the 2ist century, but as part of this primary, we have to find out our identity as a party and as a movement. 
I called for boots on the ground many months ago in a coalition with our friends who share our interest. 
And people at home are saying they've got a problem, listen to them. 
If I am elected president, keep an eye on the tarmac, because I'll be back, because Iowa in 2017 will not be fly-over country. 
In terms of Wall Street, I respectfully disagree with you, madam secretary, in the sense that the issue here is when you have such incredible power and such incredible wealth. 
But let me rephrase your question because I think, in all do respect, you're expression. 
Yes, he was a great one, and I learned much from watching him. 
I mean, this economy is nothing like what it was like five years ago, not to mention 15 or 20 years ago. 
it's absolutely disgraceful that Secretary Kerry and others said in their response to what's going on in Iran that this was a good thing; it showed how the relationship was getting better. 
That's get rid of Planned Parenthood funding from the United States of America. 
And nothing is more important to me than my family, my faith, and my friends. 
And right now, this administration doesn't do that. 
And Hillary Clinton lied to the families of those four brave Americans who lost their life in Benghazi. 
When you had a terrorist, you could only search a relatively narrow slice of numbers, primarily land lines. 
If you have an administration stacked with Wall Street appointees, it ain't going to accomplish very much. 
We have terrible health care, Obamacare is going to be repealed and replaced. 
But I had to stand up and come back and get the best that we could. 
I know that; I've been dealing with them for a long time. 
You're talking about people who are fighting ISIS using their guns to overthrow Assad, and vice versa. 
Now, it needs to go further, and there will be an international meeting at the end of this year, and we must get verifiable commitments to fight climate change from every country gathered there. 
Well, first of all, self-deportation is people are going to leave as soon as they see others going out. 
Well, I believe that there are abuses, those companies should be permanently barred from ever using the program again and we should put strict standards in place to ensure that they're not being abused, like the prevailing wage requirement and like the advertising requirement. 
And, I think there should be no mandates, and no subsidies whatsoever. 
The next president is going to appoint one, two, three, four Supreme Court justices. 
Well, the current Constitution actually doesn't address that particular situation, but the fact of the matter is the Supreme Court, obviously, is a very important part of our governmental system. 
I do believe that we should substantially lower student debt in this country, which is crushing millions of people. 
I am a little skeptical about your governor actually caring enough about higher education to make any kind of commitment like that. 
There are others, there are a multitude of vaccines which probably don't fit in that category, and there should be some discretion in those cases. 
The head of the Yale Business School, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, wrote a paper recently, one of the worst tenures for a CEO that he has ever seen, ranked one of the top 20 in the history of business. 
We will pay for quality, lower prices, and we will begin to see healthcare become affordable in America and where people will also be able to have health insurance, even if they have a preexisting condition. 
I agree with everything that's been said here about repealing unconstitutional rules and rules that are creating real burdens for investing that creating jobs. 
We cannot mix the radical Islamic jihadist with everyday Muslim-Americans. 
We need to get rid of those, allow ourselves to really make Europe dependent on us and other parts of the world dependent on us for energy. 
Well, first of all, I'm absolutely against privatizing the V.A. 
The problem is, this redistribution has gone in the wrong direction. 
It wasn't phrased as who gets to nominate Supreme Court appointees. 
I will continue to have tremendous admiration and respect for Governor Bush. 
Well, let me just add that, you know, I've said this before and I'm very proud of it, that when it comes to judgment, having run a hard race against Senator Obama at the time, he turned to me to be secretary of State. 
It really rattled the Chinese, and for the first time since we took positive action, the Chinese are beginning to take action against North Korea. 
And of course, we have to have people in every community involved in it. 
That was not, as I understand it, the secretary's position. 
And I agree with much of what the Secretary and the Governor have said. 
Money is pouring in to this campaign through super PACs. 
You know, you look at the -- the national debt and how it's being driven up. 
OK, just so you understand I know so much about trading about with China. 
We should be doing these things and forcing the president to take action. 
As a result of this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision, our campaign finance system is corrupt and is undermining American democracy. 
And I want to make sure that we preserve that exceptionalism for the next generation. 
And I've met a lot of grandparents who are now taking care of grandchildren. 
Well, I can only say look, I can only say I've been a big contributor to Israel over the years. 
He was a health inspector; had a newborn child and left all that behind to kill 14 people. 
And then in terms of taking care of the indigent, we have another whole system, and I can go ahead and explain it, but I don't have the time, but I'd be happy to if you give me some more time. 
Well, let me tell you, their brand is not superior to the national security of the United States of America. 
I feel very strongly that we have to reform our criminal justice system and we have to find ways to try to bring law enforcement together again with the communities that they are sworn to protect. 
The first line of defense against radicalization is in Muslim-American community. 
Well, it's an interesting question because I'm very proud of my company. 
I believe the world is a safer and a better place when America is the strongest power in the world. 
I would have nominated my former boss, Mike Luttig, who was the strongest proven conservative on the court of appeals. 
What goes on in Colorado, as far as I'm concerned, that should be a state decision. 
Well, you began it yesterday with your comments...
The only way we're are going to be able to move forward after two migratory crises with minor, after two unconstitutional executive orders, the only way forward on this issue is to first bring illegal immigration under control. 
We didn't surrender in New Jersey, six years ago, as the brand new first ever pro-life governor of New Jersey since Roe versus Wade, I defended Planned Parenthood. 
But here's why I think I will be, if nominated, the strongest candidate. 
Here's what we need to do, and I think this is where Donald is absolutely right. 
And I think -- and I think we bring together that broad coalition, including Russia, to help us destroy ISIS. And work on a timetable to get rid of Assad, hopefully through Democratic elections. 
Governor Kasich, after the last presidential election the Republican party realized that in order to win the presidency it needed the support of latinos. 
The wages that high school graduates receive today are significantly less, whether you are white or black, than they used to be. 
And, we led the effort and wiped out that bailout fund. 
That's there's a huge difference where, without us leading voids are filled, and the idea that it's a good idea for Putin to be in Syria, let ISIS take out Assad, and then Putin will take out ISIS? 
OK. Let's start off with my father being a mailman. 
I love the Chinese people but they laugh themselves, they can't believe how stupid the American leadership is. 
What I don't like is that if you make $200 million a year, you pay ten percent, you're paying very little relatively to somebody that's making $50,000 a year, and has to hire H&R Block to do the because it's so complicated. 
You've got to have a clear vision of where you want to go. 
Iran has taken over Iraq, with the second-largest oil reserves in the world. 
Republicans have batted worse than 500, more than half of the people we put on the court have been a disaster. 
I think, you know, Rand and I have some significant issues on policy, but I respect Rand. 
I can agree with you or not, but you can't have a question over your head. 
And America is under the gun to lead the free world to protect our civilized way of life. 
And that's exactly what we are able to do based on the foundation of the Affordable Care Act what Governor O'Malley just said is one of the models that we will be looking at to make sure we do get costs down, we do limit a lot of the unnecessary costs that we still have in the system. 
And what we need to do is go at the things that they are most sensitive and most embarrassing to them; that they're hiding; get that information and put it out in public. 
And we will end welfare benefits for those here illegally. 
You know, I was hoping to get a chance to talk about North Korea. 
I don't want our country to be taken away from us, and that's what's happening. 
And we don't have enough of those decisions coming down. 
This is not going to get done just by working with the Sunnis. 
I would like to see reform take place all across the country, where there's more vouchers, more freedom. 
Not the job of being president, or the job of being a senator, or the job of being a congressman. 
And what has happened there is absolutely unacceptable. 
When I'm president of the United States, we are going to re-embrace all the things that made America the greatest nation in the world and we are going to leave our children with what they deserve: the single greatest nation in the history of the world. 
is to build on an honest conversation about where we go next. 
Thank you, good night and may the force be with you.
I trust Iowans, Granite staters, people in South Carolina, people in Nevada, to start this process out. 
I remember when the Egyptian ambassador to the United States stood in the Rose Garden and pledged Arab commitment to removing Saddam Hussein from Kuwait. 
The foreign policy, you have to know how to pick and choose. 
Secondly, we have grown government at the rate of inflation. 
And frankly, I think the problem we have in foreign policy right now, Wolf, is that we are not certain with who we stand with. 
That's what they do, whether it's the San Bernardino attack or if it's these tragedies that take place, I think we need to focus on what the bigger issue is. 
And, frankly, if there weren't weapons of mass destruction, we should never have gone. 
I'm running for president because our economy is rigged because working people are working longer hours for lower wages and almost all of new wealth and income being created is going to the top one percent. 
I can only tell you what I believe, and that is that I am the strongest candidate to take it to the Republicans and win in November. 
I think we were both right at the time, and Mitt picked somebody else. 
But let's just take a minute here and point out that this committee is basically an arm of the Republican National Committee. 
At the center of my economic policy is raising incomes, because people haven't been able to get ahead, and the cost of everything, from college tuition to prescription drugs, has gone up. 
When the fall comes, and we run against Hillary, which will be a disaster if she got elected. 
Well, you know, the statement that I made last week, that I would leave the party was contingent upon whether in fact the party acts like they have in the past with a lot of subterfuge and dishonesty, or like they're going act now because I spike to Reince Priebus, and he assured me that the Washington Post writer had it all wrong, and that they're not be engaging in anything to thwart the will of the people. 
You know, in recent travels around this country, I've encountered so many Americans who are discouraged and angry as they watch our freedom, our security and the American dream slipping away under an unresponsive government that is populated by bureaucrats and special interest groups. 
I don't believe that Planned Parenthood should get a penny from the federal government. 
I have nothing against the passion that my two friends here have about reinstating Glass-Steagall. 
And we will join the rest of the other the industrialized world in saying that paid family and medical leave should be a right of all working families. 
Why do -- why, over her political career has Wall Street been a major -- the major campaign contributor to Hillary Clinton? 
I was a mayor for eight years, worked very closely with a great police department. 
Yes, it is true that I voted against the National Defense Authorization Act, because when I campaigned in Texas I told voters in Texas that I would oppose the federal government having the authority to detain U.S. citizens permanently with no due process. 
And although we've made progress, we're standing but not running the way America needs to. 
Let 44 million in New Hampshire, it was practically ...44 million give me a break. 
If our primary care physicians keep us healthy for a year, with really high quality, guess what? 
Well, what it would like is, we have one of the great advantages of America being the open society that we are. 
You know, the people who say the guy who paid a billion dollars because he had 10, he has still got $9 billion left, that's not fair, we need to take more of his money. 
I am not, and and you mentioned that the U.S. Supreme Court had rightly upheld the individual right to keep and bear arms. 
You know, tonight we hear about what people want to do. 
I've told people that from the time I was U.S. attorney 13 years ago. 
And Abdullah said something recently, very important. 
We should be for these things to create high sustained economic growth. 
Please go to hillaryclinton.com and be part of making this country what we know it can and should be.
And I will focus I will focus on helping those people who need it the most. 
Well, thank you very much for hosting this debate, and let me applaud my colleagues up here. 
And that is what has to change in the United States of America. 
I am convinced that this president, if he could get rid of the Second Amendment, he would. 
You should look to Rush Limbaugh and Mark Levin, that said... 
Thank you, Donald, for allowing me to speak at the debate. 
Here's what I would do Neil, I would appoint an Attorney General and I would have one very brief conversation with that Attorney General. 
So it's not just what's in the trade agreement that I'm interested in. 
But the current trade agreements over the last 30 years were written by corporate America, for corporate America, resulted in the loss of millions of decent-paying jobs, 60,000 factories in America lost since 2001, millions of decent-paying jobs; and also a downward spiral, a race to the bottom where employers say, "Hey, you don't want to take a cut in pay? 
And I was proud to get the endorsement of Mayor Walsh of Boston, who has made his struggle with alcoholism a real clarion call for action in this arena. 
But eminent domain is something you need very strongly. 
But I think it would be really unfair not to look at the entire picture. 
But the idea that we some day maybe have decent relations with Iran, maybe put pressure on them so they end their support for terrorism around the world, yes, that is something I want to achieve. 
If you look at what President Obama has done over and over again, whether it was the James Bergdahl deal, which was absolutely shameful, releasing five senior Taliban terrorists to bring Bergdahl back, or whether it was this recent deal with Iran, where, again, up to 21 terrorists or potential terrorists were were released or not prosecuted in order to bring back four Americans, what that does does is it effectively puts a bounty on American servicemen and women serving abroad, on American tourists traveling abroad. 
This is not just the most capable, it is the most sophisticated terror threat we have ever faced. 
Where basically, businesses now will have to pay a tax, both on the money they make, but they also have to pay taxes on the money that they pay their employees. 
So here is what Hillary Clinton needs to understand. 
And what we have to recognize is that Putin is trying to really spread his influence throughout the Middle East. 
By the way, I think I actually flew on this plane with Ronald Reagan when I was a congressman, and his goals, and mine, really much are pretty much the same. 
I have talked to some of the young kids with tears rolling down their cheeks, are scared to death that today they may or their parents may be deported. 
Where Secretary Clinton and I think, I agree with most of what she said. 
There's tremendous waste, fraud and abuse, and we're going to get it. 
Everybody said it was going to be three hours, three and a half, including them, and in about two minutes I renegotiated it so we can get the hell out of here. 
I actually have experience with raising taxes on millionaires in my state. 
A debate actually is a policy issue, but I will say this. 
Where we abolished partial-birth abortion, where parents have the right to be notified when their teenage child is having an abortion. 
I do not believe that we have to destroy our economy in order to protect our environment. 
Because I am leaving the Senate, I'm not running for re-election, and I'm running for president because I know this: unless we have the right president, we cannot make America fulfill its potential, but with the right person in office, the 21st century can be the greatest era that our nation has ever known. 
And whoever gets elected president here, hopefully will take care of the issue of jobs and wages and Social Security and the border. 
You know, Chris, here's what happened with Medicaid in my state. 
And she is just one or two more poll drops down from even moving further left than she's moved already to get to the left of Bernie on this. 
So yes, we have to work with Silicon Valley to make sure that we do not allow ISIS to transmit information...
I just read today in the New York Times, $250,000 for a 30 second ad. 
So he either wasn't telling the truth then or he isn't telling the truth now, but to argue he is a purist on immigration is just not true. 
And I very much agree with Marco that it should be Rosa Parks. 
Secondly, to go after and dismantle their global network of terrorism. 
I do have to say something, and this is interesting and it's not anybody's fault. 
And yet he looked forward to the promise of America. 
We ought to be helping in terms of the technology for fracking, keeping the price low, quite frankly, because that's what's keeping him contained. 
You're going to be treated as an enemy combatant, a member of an army attacking this country. 
In this particular moment of serious crises, saying to the American people don't give up on the political process. 
I'm the only person...saying, no middle class tax raises. 
It is appropriate for the government to play a consistent role to be able to provide more treatment, more prevention we're the state that has the most drug courts across every circuit in in in Florida, there are drug courts to give people a second chance. 
So, anybody who is here tonight, if I get elected president, head out tomorrow and buy a seat belt, because there's going to be so much happening in the first 100 days, it's going to make your head spin. 
Well, Chris, I'm glad to discuss my views on ethanol and energy. 
The fact of the matter is we're not going to have peace we are not going to have peace in Syria. 
Well, the currency manipulation they don't discuss in the agreement, which is a disaster. 
The New York Times a few weeks back had a columnist who wrote a column saying, "Anybody But Cruz." 
So, it's going to be my responsibility to make sure we move forward to solve these problems that are now out in the open. 
I think that we've got so much business we have to do. 
We want all these things, and we don't get anything. 
And I say that with greatwith great respect for the campaign that Senator Sanders has been running. 
So, Rachel, yes, Secretary Clinton does represent the establishment. 
We need to secure all the borders, because it's not just people coming in from South America and Mexico, but there are terrorists who want to destroy us, who are getting across our borders fairly easily. 
And in Israel, we have no better ally in the world, and no more criticizing them in public, we should support them. 
And I gotta tell you, on-the-job training for president of the United States doesn't work. 
No. 1 is, what are we doing in the Asia-Pacific region, where both North Korea and China pose threats to the national security of the United States. 
Clearly the best piece of veterans' legislation brought forth in decades. 
I mean, I heard what they both said, I saw it on the video. 
And, of course, we have to continue to do what is necessary when someone like Gadhafi, a despot with American blood on his hands, is overturned. 
But the fact is, every single engine of government has to move when you see a crisis like that. 
And you look around, and you see what's happening, and this is not the case when he introduced the doctor very nice, everything perfect but that is not representative of what you have in that line of migration. 
Get the lawyers off the damn backs of the military once and for all. 
Megyn, that's a -- that, you know, that's a completely ridiculous answer. 
But look and I know Bernie, and I can promise you he's not going to be president of the United States. 
And I feel very strongly that I have an agenda, I have a record that really does respond to a lot of the specific needs that the women in our country face. 
And, you know, that's been my message in New Hampshire. 
But what I did say was that the person who came in for the license needed to get it. 
We've worked hard our whole life to provide a better family a better life for our family. 
But we hundreds of companies, hundreds of deals, I've used Every major business leader, has used the I never went bank bankrupt, by the way, as you know, everybody knows. 
But, I think it's a broader target list than just Wall Street, and I believe that we have to be very focused on how we try to take back the power and increase the empowerment of the American people. 
And that's the way my parents came legally in 1956. 
Anyone who really cared about illegal immigration wouldn't be hiring illegal immigrants. 
The undermining of the Second Amendment is not an accident. 
No nominee of mine, if I'm elected president, to the United States Supreme Court will get that nomination unless he or she is loud and clear, and says they will vote to overturn Citizens United. 
And it was not only a great accomplishment of the Democratic Party, but of President Obama. 
I think there is constitutional and legal authority for the president to have done what he did. 
We have ended the terrible situation that people with pre- existing conditions were faced with where they couldn't find at any affordable price health care. 
We went after companies that were ripping off shareholders. 
And I appreciate the opportunity to speak this time, Gerry. 
Well, obviously, you don't understand my views on homosexuality. 
They have a naval base, they have an air base in Syria. 
That's why I'll enforce the federal law, while you can still put an emphasis on rehabilitation, which we've done in New Jersey. 
For too long no, for too long, what happens is somebody dumps their product in our country and take our people's jobs, and then we go to an international court and it takes them like a year or two to figure out whether they were cheating us. 
And we had a legitimate misunderstanding in terms of his pronunciation of a word. 
And as our party's nominee, I will defeat Hillary Clinton in November. 
Jonathan has been deployed by the National Guard, he is he's in Oklahoma. 
If I'm so fortunate as to be the nominee, the first person I will call to talk to about where we go and how we get it done will be Senator Sanders. 
And I think once I'm in the White House we will have enough political capital to be able to do that. 
Let's force him to do what he says he's going to do. 
I believe that when real unemployment is close to 10%, and when our infrastructure, our roads, our bridges, our water systems, Flint, Michigan comes to mind. 
We need to create a situation where they know that there will be adverse impacts if they continue to do what they're doing. 
Can I just...I'm not going to invite Donald Trump to the rally in Charleston on Monday afternoon when my brother is coming to speak. 
If you look at a single mom buying groceries, she sees hamburger prices have gone up nearly 40 percent. 
Look, the insurance companies are making an absolute fortune. 
One thing I'd like to add to what the Governor's saying, I think that we are now in a position are $19 trillion dollars because of the horrible omnibus budget that was approved six weeks ago, it's going to be $21 trillion dollars. 
It's the they want to go into Egypt the way they've already gone into Libya. 
But we also ought to get back to being a Tenth Amendment country, as well, a country that respects the states to be able to make more decisions. 
I believe in fair trade which works for the middle class and working families of this country and not just large multinational corporations. 
I've received many, many awards from Israel, as I've said before. 
I said, absolutely, you can still change the world. 
And here is the truth, Ted Cruz supported legalizing people that were in this country...and only now does he say... 
But we also need to reform Medicare and Social Security. 
And I think when you give low-income kids African-American, white, Latino kids the opportunities to get their lives together, they are not going to end up in jail. 
If my memory is correct, I think when we saw children coming from these horrendous, horrendously violent areas of Honduras and neighboring countries, people who are fleeing drug violence and cartel violence, I thought it was a good idea to allow those children to stay in this country. 
That requires an understanding of how the world works. 
So if Ms. Davis wanted to step aside and get rid of her ability to be able to do that, there should be someone else in that office who it didn't violate their conscience so they could follow the law of the state of Kentucky. 
They're now in Afghanistan, trying to supplant the Taliban as the most powerful radical jihadist group on the ground there, as well. 
Listen, we this is the greatest country in the history of mankind. 
That will require a coalition of Iraqis and Syrians, that are also Sunnis, but it will also require the cooperation of Jordanians, Egyptians. 
I only say it's not I'm in favor of vaccines, do them over a longer period of time, same amount. 
Yeah, and that will also come out of the some of the pockets of people in the financial services industry...
Medicare for all, single-payer system is the way we should go. 
And when we and when we do that, we don't do what the Republicans want, which is to cut Social Security. 
We have to have assimilation to have a country, we have to have assimilation. 
At the end of the day, if Teddy Roosevelt were alive today, and the governor makes a good point about trade, anti-trade, anti-monopoly activities. 
You had two one hundred you had two 110-story buildings come crashing down. 
People have asked me, big companies have asked me to make speeches, and friends of mine that run big companies on success. 
And the proposal that I've laid out is the one the Wall Street Journal editorial board has said is the most pro-growth of all the proposals out there. 
And finally China, China doesn't own the South China Sea, and I give the president some credit for being able to move a naval force in there to let the Chinese know that we're not going to put up with it any more. 
In the case of Iran, for example, who has the clarity of vision to understand that the Ayatollah Khamenei, when he chants, "Death to America," he means it. 
He said, for example, seven months ago this is Donald speaking, quote "I, Donald Trump, was a member of the establishment.
If we're gonna reform welfare for poor people, we ought to reform it for rich people, as well. 
Our economy -- people are working harder and being left behind. 
No one knows whether we're serious, and when we do it, we do it in increments you can barely see. 
The question that you asked was a really good one about what you would do what three things would you do. 
What this campaign is about is whether we can mobilize our people to take back our government from a handful of billionaires and create the vibrant democracy we know we can and should have. 
The biggest thing we've got, and the reason we've got no competition, is because we have lines around the state, and you have essentially.... ...
And we must substantially lower, as my legislation does, interest rates on student debt. 
You did support a U.N. Security Council approach, which we did follow up on. 
Well, you know, David, I I've just spent a lot of time here in this state, as I mentioned earlier, and we have to have practical solutions, just like we were just talking about a few minutes ago on North Korea. 
But that was only forthat was not to be on television. 
I think there are three major threats that you want to immediately get on top of. 
Yeah, we can create 13 million jobs by rebuilding our infrastructure at a cost of a trillion dollars. ...
We need to control our border just like people have to control who goes in and out of their house. 
And then, you know, after 9/11, the secretary of defense called me in to help out with some things. 
I would work quickly to present to the Congress my plans for creating more good jobs in manufacturing, infrastructure, clean and renewable energy, raising the minimum wage, and guaranteeing, finally, equal pay for women's work. 
It is disgusting, and the American people need to hear it...we shouldn't be fighting with each other. 
Well first of all, I want people to think about what kind of leader do you want and what kind of person do you want your kids to emulate. 
And on another point that we need to talk about, Assad is one of the main reasons why ISIS even exists to begin with. 
This is the biggest challenge we face as a people. 
Kathie, that is the kind of economy I believe, put money in the hands of working people, raise the minimum wage to 15 buck an hour. 
We have so much litigation I see the courts, I see what they're doing. 
Everybody gets a health empowerment account the day they are born, they keep it until they die. 
This is a part of the world where the United States has tried to play two different approaches. 
If you look at cause and effect over our nation's history, every time we lessen the burden of Washington on small-business owners, on job creators, we see incredible economic growth. 
I particularly appreciate the proposal that Congressman Jim Clyburn has the 10-20-30 proposal to try to spend more federal dollars in communities with persistent generational poverty. 
We should use offensive tactics as it relates to cyber security, send a deterrent signal to China. 
As a result of that legislation, we went further in than any time in recent history in improving health care for the men and women of this country who put their lives on the line to defend them. 
...people all over this country -- not you, Secretary Clinton -- are shouting at each other. 
And said, well, she said you were angry and I said to myself, huh, she's right. 
We need to get the lawyers off the back of the warfighters. 
Let me tell you how you do this, what you do is you enforce the law...
Can I just can I Jake, can I just make one point on this whole military discussion? 
We can raise our voices, but I come from a rural state, and the views on gun control in rural states are different than in urban states, whether we like it or not. 
America was safe for those seven years and Barack Obama has taken that safety away from us. 
Assad is a bad guy, but we have no idea who the so-called rebels I read about the rebels, nobody even knows who they are. 
So, 40 years ago, I smoked marijuana, and I admit it. 
They want to say they say whatever they have to say to keep it the way it is. 
It has been discussed now for 30 years and nothing ever happens. 
So yes, I will do away with the outrageous loopholes that allow profitable multinational corporations to stash billions of dollars in the Cayman Islands and Bermuda and in a given year pay zero, zero in federal income tax. 
And that's why I think people get so frustrated with Washington, D.C. now. 
They're not taking out they're not even attempting to take out ISIS. 
And we need to make a renewed investment as a country in bringing up a new generation of foreign service officers, and bringing up a new generation of business people and actually understanding and having relationships in these places. 
It guards us against illegal and unreasonable search and seizure. 
You wonder why young people, and educated people, rich people, schooled people, have tried to join ISIS. Western civilization, all of us, need to wake up to the fact that those murderers and rapists need to be called out, and in Western civilization we need to make it clear that our faith in the Jewish and Christian principals force us to live a life bigger than ourselves...to make (ph) centers (ph) of justice so that we can battle the radicals, call them out for what they are, and make sure that all of our people feel fulfilled in living in Western civilization...
And I believe, if I'm so fortunate to get the nomination, I will begin to work immediately on putting together an agenda, beginning to talk with members of Congress and others about how we can push forward. 
The Great Wall of China, built 2,000 years ago 2,000, is 13,000 miles. 
Look, first of all, I wrote a book about this, three four years ago, now. 
That's who's in my mind And if you really want to believe that you can get your voice back, I will tell you, as I have all my career, I will continue to fight for you, because you're the ones that built this country, and will carry it into the future. 
And that's the way ISIS has been created and formed here. 
And I've got to tell you, it sounded like everything in the world was going amazing, you know? 
As you rightly noted, from 2008 to today, our economy has grown 1.2 percent a year on average. 
We have so much natural gas now, and we can liquify it, and we can transfer it across the sea so we can make Europe dependent on us instead of Putin put him back in his little box where he belongs. 
I have seen him appoint people to our courts not to defend the Second Amendment, but to figure out ways to undermine it. 
But, the simple fact is that going forward, what we need to do is to have someone that has a long standing set of rulings that consistently makes it clear that he is a focused, exclusively on upholding the Constitution of the United States so they won't try to use the bench as a means to which legislate. 
Now, let me tell you exactly what we would do on Social Security. 
Number one, States have been dis-investing in higher education. 
I will instruct every federal agency that the persecution of religious liberty ends today. 
For the life of me, I don't know why we have stigmatized vocational education. 
Everybody always goes immediately to the issue of deportation. 
For over 2.5 centuries, America's been a special country, the one place on earth where anyone from anywhere can achieve anything, a nation that's been a force for good on this planet. 
This is an issue that that we've gotta talk about, and we haven't talked about yet. 
O'MALLEY: May I jump in here for 30 seconds on health care? 
They're anxious about the fact that they are working incredibly long hours, they're worried about their kids, and they're seeing all the new income and wealth -- virtually all of it -- going to the top 1 percent. 
Number two, in the economy today, everybody understands that we need a well educated workforce. 
This is an interesting point when you talk about immigration. 
Well first, thanks to MSNBC and thanks to all of you for holding this debate before the New Hampshire primary. 
Three specific reforms that reflect those principles. 
We shouldn't have the war fighters have their arms tied behind their back as President Obama wanted to do, but they had a chance to show support and it wasn't popular at the time. 
And only after all of that is in place, then we'll see what the American people are willing to support on this issue. 
Barack Obama right now, number one, over seven years, has dramatically degraded our military. 
and I think what Governor O'Malley is saying, and I hope you say, is when the middle class of this country is disappearing, when we have massive income and wealth inequality, when we're the only major country on earth not guaranteeing health care to all people, all the issues that the governor talked about, the secretary talked about, those are the issues. 
We need someone with a proven record to be able to forge consensus to solve problems. 
To make it listen, ISIS is gaining strength because the perception is that they're winning. 
The only way to figure that out is to go back to getting the intelligence community the funding and the tools that it needs to be able to keep America safe. 
And I said that I was holding out that hope that it would be the kind of trade agreement that I was looking for. 
You've got to keep asking because this is a hugely important issue. 
We've done it 27 times since World War II. I think we need to lift our spirits and have high, lofty expectations for this great country of ours. 
Now, the proposal that I have outlined, you know, should be familiar to you, because it is what essentially Barack Obama campaigned on in 2008. 
Better release your tax returns so we can see how much money he made. 
And the fact is those jobs are critical, they're hard working members of the middle class and they need to be paid attention to because they're Americans and they carry the load. 
And one of the reasons why is because we have one of the most expensive business tax rates on the planet. 
And frankly, it's tougher because of course we have to deal with the problem that the banks are still too big to fail. 
We need to use electronics, we need to use drones, we need to use FBI, DEA, and ATF, and yes, we need to take the fingerprint of every person who comes into this country on a visa, and when they overstay their visa, we need to tap them on the shoulder, and say, "You have overstayed your welcome, you're taking advantage of the American people. 
We either have a border, and I'm very strongly I'm not proposing. 
What I want to do is make sure middle class kids, not Donald Trump's kids, get to be able to afford college. 
On Monday night, about 6:30 p.m., CNN reported that Ben was not going from Iowa to New Hampshire or South Carolina. 
One, with respect to the Central American children, I made it very clear that those children needed to be processed appropriately, but we also had to send a message to families and communities in Central America not to send their children on this dangerous journey in the hands of smugglers. 
Such a nasty such a nasty question, but thank you, Governor. 
There is one major country the United States which ends up spending almost three times per capita what they do in the U.K. guaranteeing health care to all people, 50 percent more than they do in France guaranteeing health care to all people, far more than our Canadian neighbors, who guarantee health care to all people. 
You can go to my website...hillaryclinton.com, and read about it. 
And we should be thinking about how we could create some healing in this land. 
Against the Republican leadership, who all thought it would be a great idea to merge investor banks and commercial banks and large insurance companies. 
But also, you know, this whole concept of boots on the ground, you know, we've got a phobia about boots on the ground. 
For the people who say we can't do it, I say hell no, we can do it together.
They issue two-thirds of the credit cards and one-third of the mortgages. 
I represent, I hope, ordinary Americans, and by the way, who are not all that enamored with the establishment, but I am very proud to have people like Keith Ellison and Raul Grijalva in the House, the co-chairmen of the House Progressive Caucus. 
I think you're Well, first of all, like many other very big businessmen, I could name them here, but I'm not going to do that for a lot of obvious reasons, but the biggest, and almost all of them, they've all used the chapter laws, the bankruptcy laws to their own benefit. 
Well, I've been talking to a lot of these families, and this is such an outrage, both because it's bad for our economy, we're a 70 percent consumption economy, people need to feel optimistic and confident, they need to believe their hard work is going to be rewarded, and it's bad for our democracy. 
That's how we'll have the kind of country for the 21st century that we know will guarantee our children and grandchildren the kind of future they deserve. 
And when you have insider information, which apparently has been the case, where people use that information and use big data to try to take advantage of it, there has to be some regulation. 
And we need to bring our debt under control, make our economy stronger. 
Billions of dollars flowed into North Korea in exchange for promises not to build nuclear weapons. 
Career civil service reform would allow the next president to fire people that are that are showing sheer incompetence. 
Well, I would think that would underscore the need to release those returns. 
Prime Minister Netanyahu has said Israel doesn't have a dog in that fight because Assad is a puppet of Iran, a Shia radical Islamic terrorist, but at the same time, Prime Minister Netanyahu doesn't want to see Syria governed by ISIS. 
O'MALLEY: I'd like to take a matter of personal privilege here...Absolutely. 
Mr. Average, who used to go to the bank every Friday and put part of his check in the bank and watch it grow over three decades and be able to retire with a nice nest egg, that's gone. 
We need to mobilize the entire country to treat our veterans and treat them with much more respect than they get today. 
And if you can't use the term, you're never going to solve the problem. 
And the simple fact is to turn this into a limousine parking lot for his casinos is a not public use. 
Well, I was going for Peyton Manning, but now I'm rooting for Carolina. 
I don't know enough about the technology, Martha, to be able to say what it is, but I have a lot of confidence in our tech experts. 
This entire question was an attack, but that's Chris, I would note that that the last four questions have been, "Rand, please attack Ted. 
And, you know, with all due respect, Senator, you voted for regime change with respect to Libya. 
And once that is in place and that's working, I believe the American people will support a very reasonable, but responsible approach to people that have been here a long time, who are not dangerous criminals, who pay taxes and pay fines for what they did. 
What we need to think about instead -- you know, I was asked by an NPR reporter once, why don't I talk about race that often. 
So you said you'd abandon philosophy and abandon principle...but what would you do if the bank was failing? 
You know, before it was emails, it was Benghazi, and the Republicans were stirring up so much controversy about that. 
The country is so divided right now, and now we're going to see another partisan fight take place. 
No, a good deal maker will make great deals, but we'll do it the way our founders thought it should be done. 
But it is absolutely fair and necessary for Americans to vet both of our proposals, to ask the really hard questions about, what is it we think we can accomplish, why do we believe that, and what would be the results for the average American family? 
Well because I am a progressive who gets things done. 
We need to change the conditions on the ground so that young men are not in poverty and susceptible to radicalization. 
I've created tens of thousands of jobs, and in all due respect and actually some of these folks I really like a lot but I'm the only one that can say that. 
When there's a water crisis, how do we get water to the city? 
I think you're going to see a big impact on autism. 
I would go with Ronald Reagan's partner, Margaret Thatcher. 
You you asked a question not about the draft, you asked about registering. 
Well, I'll tell you over the years, I've made many speeches. 
What I believe is the United States, in fact, should join the rest of the industrialized world and guarantee healthcare to all people. 
People lost their jobs, their homes, their life savings. 
So I don't know if you would call that a weakness, but my wife said "let up." Right. 
We have a they say there's no bipartisanship in Washington? 
And I would hope, Senator Sanders, that you would join the Democrats who are trying to close the Charleston loophole, that you would sponsor or co-sponsor legislation to remove the absolute immunity. 
Now no one thinks that working in the factory is the greatest job in the world. 
I've always favored traditional marriage, but, look, the court has ruled and I've moved on. 
And yes, the economy is rigged in favor of those at the top. 
And that's the kind of thing that helps us to grow. 
So I want us to have a very tough screening process but I want that process to go forward. 
The United States has, unfortunately, been victimized by terrorism going back decades. 
He has an amazing life story that has inspired millions, including me. 
The fact is that this Justice Department under this president has been a political Justice Department. 
They don't like somebody else like David Petraeus, they prosecute them and send a decorated general on to disgrace. 
" A lot of that is because they devalue their currency. 
As a policy, I would almost leave it up to the people. 
And this if you want to know who will stand with Israel, we ought to start with who has stood with Israel when the heat was on. 
We're going to have our primary, we're going to have our debates which by the way, are twice as many as the Democrats have been willing to have themselves. 
This is a radical jihadist group that is increasingly sophisticated in its ability, for example, to radicalize American citizens, in its inability to exploit loopholes in our legal immigration system, in its ability to capture and hold territory in the Middle East, as I outlined earlier, in multiple countries. 
The first speech I gave in this campaign back in April was about criminal justice reform and ending the era of mass incarceration. 
And and and I you know, Ben is absolutely right in saying that what we don't need to do is to send more money to Washington, D.C. to fix this problem. 
We have a lot more social media, we have everybody with a cellphone. 
It's controlled by the Kurds, the Christians and the moderate Sunnis. 
And if I am elected president, to every soldier and sailor and airman and marine, and to every police officer and firefighter and first responder who risk their lives to keep us safe, I will have your back.
And for people who want to just tune him out, they're making a mistake. 
We could overthrow Assad tomorrow if we wanted to. 
Moammar Gadhafi is also the man that bombed that cafe in Berlin and killed those Marines. 
Because assuming that she runs, by the way, how she gets away with the e-mail stuff is hard to believe. 
This isn't this isn't, you know, a different kind of job. 
Because in my years in the Senate, I've figured out very quickly that the political establishment in Washington, D.C. in both political parties is completely out of touch with the lives of our people. 
Last week in Nevada, I beat him in a landslide, and he sank about the polls. 
Suicide, alcoholism, drugs, that's why we need to start paying attention to the needs of working families in this country, and not just a handful of billionaires who have enormous economic and political power. 
What my wife and I have taught our daughters right from the beginning, that their sense of self-worth, their sense of value, their sense of what they want to do with their life comes not from the outside, but comes from within. 
When I'm president of the United States, we are defending the Second Amendment, not undermining it the way Barack Obama does. 
When Carly says the revenues went up, that's because she bought Compaq, it was a terrible deal, and it really led to the destruction of the company. 
Twenty-one mass shootings, including one last weekend in Des Moins where three were murdered. 
Self-deportation, as I really define it, and that's the way I define it, is you're going to get some to go, and the rest are going to go out. 
I wanted I wanted to say, look, this there can be a win-win here. 
I believe I will have a steady hand as commander in chief and president of the United States. 
This country was declared its independence in 1776. 
Within the first hundred days, I will send a plan like this to the Congress of the United States, and if I'm president, I'll bet you dollar to doughnuts right now, it will pass. 
It lays out a process that you go through to determine whether a systemic risk is posed. 
I voted for comprehensive immigration reform in 2007. 
And it's what I did as Secretary of State, on numerous occasions, and most particularly, rounding up two-thirds votes in order to pass a treaty that lowered the nuclear weapons in both Russia and the United States. 
So let's support what Secretary Kerry and the president are doing, but let's hope that we can accelerate the cease-fire, because I fear that the Russians will continue their bombing, try to do everything they can to destroy what's left of the opposition. 
They were unaware of it, I wish that they had, that's why I apologized. 
Because they currently occupy Sunni cities and villages. 
I wish that our campaign staff had forwarded that statement. 
I'm for higher standards measured in an intellectually honest way, with abundant school choice, ending social promotion. 
And I also voted and helped lead the effort against the war in Iraq, which will go down in history as one of the worst foreign blunders -- foreign policy blunders in the history of our country. 
With the Affordable Care Act, we now have moved all of our acute care hospitals, that driver of cost at the center, away from fee-for- service. 
Now, listen, I'm a former federal prosecutor, I know Jim Comey. 
If we can do what we want with Russia but nobody else is adhering to it. 
And yes, we would shoot down the planes of Russian pilots if in fact they were stupid enough to think that this president was the same feckless weakling that the president we have in the Oval Office is right now. 
We are facing in this country Christian groups and groups that hold traditional values who feel and in fact are being discriminated against by the laws of this country that try to force them to vie to violate their conscience. 
As we honor the extraordinary life of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., it's important not only that we remember what he stood for, but that we pledge to continue his vision to transform our country. 
The IRS, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Energy, the Department of Commerce, and HUD and then 25 specific programs. 
And I'll tell you whose view on Assad is the same as mine. 
It would have driven her out of business, and Ms. Loving sued the IRS. 
Why don't we just give a chicken in every pot, while we're, you know, coming up coming up with these fantasy tax schemes. 
He has also supported, by the way, a budget that is called the containment budget. 
It is a fact that the cuts we are facing today and the cuts that Senator Cruz would have supported would leave us with an even smaller Air Force and a smaller Navy than the one we are going to be left with. 
" We actually have to understand the principles that made America great in the first place. 
We can't just allow it to continue on its current path the way that Hillary Clinton wants to do because there'll be major reductions in benefits in the next decade if we do nothing. 
There is a great deal of skepticism about the federal government. 
And, I would not that there's a much more important government regulation to ethanol, and that's the EPA's blend wall that makes it illegal to sell mid-level blends of ethanol in gasoline. 
You you you helped design George W. Bush's you helped design George W. Bush's immigration policy. 
How do we utilize our intellect rather than allowing the government to use its, quote, "intellect," in order to help us to be able to live healthier and better lives? 
There are 13,000 community-based organizations that provide health services to women, 13,000 in this country. 
If you will join me in this campaign, we will make that a mission. 
He loved Ronald Reagan; he would be very proud of the fact that we're here this evening. 
I do support the use of medical marijuana, and I think even there we need to do a lot more research so that we know exactly how we're going to help people for whom medical marijuana provides relief. 
And then, when you got to the Senate, you did an interview with CBS News I wasn't even part of the video where you said, on the issue of people that are here illegally, "we can reach a compromise." 
There should be if women can meet the requirements, the minimum requirements for combat service they ought to have the right to do it. 
People are being released from jail without the education, without the job training, without the resources that they need to get their lives together, then they end up we're shocked that they end up back in jail again. 
What is happening in that region is the direct consequence of the inability to lead and of disengagement. 
Didn't have any money, couldn't speak English, he died pretty young, and I think it would have been beyond his wildest dreams to see his son up here on this stage today running for president. 
Well, I want to thank the people of South Carolina. 
Everybody's record's going to be scrutinized, and at the end of the day we need to unite behind the winner so we can defeat Hillary Clinton, because she is a disaster. 
Well, let me start by saying that Senator Sanders and I share some very big progressive goals. 
We need to be not paying out benefits to people who don't really need it. 
This is a guy who just believes that law enforcement are the bad guys. 
Now, the question I wonder, why is that building still standing? 
And frankly, fixing our immigration system and turning it into an economic driver is part of this as well. 
Why doesn't the media ask Hillary Clinton why she believes that all abortion should be legal, even on the due date of that unborn child. 
Where there was a battle over amnesty and some chose, like Senator Rubio to stand with Barack Obama and Chuck Schumer and support a massive amnesty plan. 
You used to say that you were in favor of birthright citizenship, now you say that you are against it. 
She put American strategy at risk for her convenience. 
I was the first person out of the box that opposed him on it. 
Well, first of all the the plan gives people the option of of opting out. 
It was just a few months ago there were 15 or 11 us on the stage and now it's narrowed and the votes are starting to count. 
On his financial disclosure form, he didn't even put that he's borrowed money from Citibank and from Goldman Sachs, which is a total violation. 
And it must be Muslim troops on the ground that will destroy ISIS, with the support of a coalition of major powersU.S., U.K., France, Germany and Russia. 
There's not a place in the world where we're better off today than six and a half years ago. 
I think I think, for me, nuclear is just the power, the devastation is very important to me. 
It has a massive exodus of professionals and others that are leaving to my home state of Florida, and all over the country. 
In the state of Ohio, the state of Ohio, we have grown 347,000 jobs. 
In fact, it will push the Muslim world, the Arab world away from us at a time when we need to reengage with them to be able to create a strategy to destroy ISIS. 
Let me tell you who's not qualified to be President of the United States, Chris. 
There are radical jihadist in the Middle East beheading people and crucifying Christians. 
And we also need to talk about health care at some time, because we agree on the goals, we just disagree on the means. 
The list goes on because the differences are so stark. 
Let's let a Justice Department and I will make an attorney general who will enforce the law and make justice more than just a word. 
I know you're embarrassed I know you're embarrassed, but keep fighting keep swinging, man. 
And that's where you find out what kind of a company. 
It does do wonderful things, but not as it relates to abortion. 
She is absolutely the love of my life, and she's right here...
They wanted me to talk about the world, what my experience had been as secretary of State. 
I would also I would also be presenting my plans to build on the Affordable Care Act and to improve it by decreasing the out-of-pocket costs by putting a cap on prescription drug costs; by looking for ways that we can put the prescription drug business and the health insurance company business on a more stable platform that doesn't take too much money out of the pockets of hard-working Americans. 
We now have this great accomplishment known as the Affordable Care Act, and I don't think we should have to be defending it among Democrats. 
Right now, we don't have a country, we don't have a border, and we're going to do something about it, and it can be done with proper management, and it can be done with heart. 
But I think it is really unfair to suggest that I have not been supportive of the president. 
She put classified information on her computer because she thinks she's above the law and anyone who lies to the families of people who have lost their loved ones in the service of our country like she did in Benghazi, can never be the commander-in-chief of the United States of America. 
And we have seen young people, up to the age of 26, being able to stay on their parent's policy. 
We have to take their oil, shut down all of the mechanisms whereby they can disperse money because they go after disaffected individuals from all over the place, and they're able to pay them. 
This was legislation supported by all of the veterans organizations, addressing many of the serious problems that veterans face in health care and in how we deliver benefits to them. 
Now, the silver lining of that is everything done with executive power can be undone with executive power, so I have pledged on day one I will rescind every single illegal and unconstitutional executive action Barack Obama has done. 
You're not going to even allow them to come to our country? 
You know who expanded Medicaid five times to try to help the folks and give them opportunity so that you could rise and get a job? 
It's very important we operate on both at the same time. 
My website, JohnKasich.com, will show you exactly how we balance the budget. 
We've spent $3 trillion and probably much more I have no idea what we've spent. 
I want to go after the pharmaceutical companies like Valeant, and Turns that are increasing prices without any regard to the impact on people's health. 
Well, first of all, we got a lot of business done with the Russians when Medvedev was the president, and not Putin. 
You go to New Hampshire, the first thing they talk about is heroin and drugs pouring in. 
I think anyone who believes that Barack Obama isn't doing what he's doing on purpose doesn't understand what we're dealing with here, OK? 
We need to focus on radical Islamic terrorists and we need to stop them before they carry out acts of terror. 
If we reengage and get involved, yeah, we can have health care for all people, we can make public colleges and universities tuition-free. 
Do I not get a response without being interrupted? 
We ought to be arming them and letting them fight. 
Limited government, entrepreneurial capitalism, of peace through strength. 
Let's listen to them and let's not listen to our politicians. 
It cannot they require what they need, is they need an operating space. 
We need someone with a steady hand being president of the United States. 
The fact of the matter is, I believe if you put more money in people's pockets that they will actually be more generous rather than less generous. 
Demanding that the wealthy start paying their fair share of taxes. 
You know what, Donald I don't want a Supreme Court justice that you cut a deal with Harry Reid to undermine religious liberty, because that same justice will also erase the Second Amendment from the Bill of Rights. 
People who we should be welcoming and working with. 
And by the way...the reason is you're welcome to have the check back. 
And I think this all really gets back to this whole regulation issue which is creating a very abnormal situation. 
What folks want in this country is somebody to go down there and get the job done. 
And it is from the lessons from history that we do this because if we allow this to fester, we're going to have Islamic terrorism, multi-generations of it all across this country. 
The simple fact is I've also laid out my plans on immigration... 
Look, do you know how hard it was...to get the balance the federal budget balanced? 
We took the growth of Medicaid from over 10 percent in my second budget to 2.5 percent, without cutting off one person or cutting one benefit, because we we innovated the government. 
I think if you're running for president, these are important issues, because look at around the world today. 
And just so if I could, because he insulted a lot of people. 
Well, first, I was critical of the Senators not giving the authorization for the use of military force. 
And the main point in the Congress, it's not the Republicans and Democrats hate each other. 
Well, Hugh, I agree with you that it Justice Scalia's passing underscores the enormous gravity of this election. 
This president and this is what the focus ought to be, it's not the differences between us, it's Barack Obama does not believe America's leadership in the world is a force for good. 
I'm sure that other people might have done it and may not want to say it in front of 25 million people. 
And this is an issue on which there are stark differences. 
Those are the things that we need to start working on immediately to make our country stronger and make it better. 
If Teddy Roosevelt were alive today, the old Republican trust buster, what he would say is these guys are too powerful. 
But what they will do is they will make America a more expensive place to create jobs. 
This is not athis is not, like, a winner-take-all thing. 
I put together the coalition that imposed the sanctions on Iran that got us to the negotiating table to put a lid on their nuclear weapons program. 
The president of the United States should be convening a meeting, should have convened a meeting with Apple and our security forces. 
We need to stop surrendering and start standing...for our principles. 
You have not be involved in a consequential decision where you had to be held accountable. 
And I'll tell you, I love these blue-collar Democrats, because they're going to vote for us come next fall, promise you that. 
Second of all, we have a lot of really bad dudes in this country from outside, and I think Chris knows that, maybe as well as anybody. 
I can tell you, when I ran for Senate here in the state of Texas, I ran promising to lead the fight against amnesty, promising to fight to build a wall. 
My 750,000 donors have contributed more than a million and a half donations. 
Not the brave men like Jim who fought in that war, but the policy which got us involved in that war. 
And the people in New York fought and fought and fought, and we saw more death, and even the smell of death nobody understood it. 
If you give me the chance and give me your vote I will protect America from the wars that are being brought to our door step.
Now, I spent seven years of my life in the immediate aftermath of September 11th doing this work, working with the Patriot Act, working with our law enforcement, working with the surveillance community to make sure that we keep America safe. 
Let me tell you the facts of what occurred for those who are interested in knowing. 
And at the end of the day, we will get to a balanced budget. 
I think, if you have a smart agenda, you pick the committees that you know have to begin to work on these various piecesbecause that's the way Congress is set up. 
In fact, today, on the front page of the Wall Street Journal, they fired another 25 or 30,000 people saying we still haven't recovered from the catastrophe. 
And I've talked to a lot of the generals, a lot of our advanced people. 
We have planes that were that Harry Truman inaugurated, the B-52. 
Who has the tenacity and the ability and the proven track record of getting that done? 
If they help Hamas, and Hezbollah, we slap the sanctions back on. 
Polls have come out recently saying I would beat Hillary. 
All their ideas are the same, tired ideas of the past. 
In other words, in American, conservatism should mean not only that some rise with conservative principles, but everybody has a chance to rise regardless of who they are so they can live their God given purpose. 
And the governor of that state acted as though he didn't really care. 
And even during the Affordable Care Act debate, there was an opportunity to vote for what was called the public option. 
And John Kerry described it as attacks that would be unbelievably small. 
And if you had a president...all though I will say this. 
Let's start solving problems in this country instead of kicking them upstairs. 
We need to eliminate the sanctuary cities in this country. 
And that's what you'll hear from Hillary Clinton and I've already heard from her is that, send more money in Social Security, send more money in Medicare taxes, send more money for Medicaid, and that's gonna solve the problem. 
That's the book where you changed your position on immigration because you used to support a path to citizenship. 
Number two, we're going to enforce our immigration laws. 
And as far as Israel is concerned, you know, when I was there several months ago, I talked to a lot of people. 
I think there needs to be a hearing, but the fact is, we need to encourage that kind of involvement. 
It is amplified by Assad, who has waged one of the bloodiest, most terrible attacks on his own people: 250,000-plus dead, millions fleeing. 
But we have failed to provide the basic safety net support that American workers need in order to be able to compete and win in the global economy. 
You know, I watched him meltdown two weeks ago with Chris Christie. 
We need to incent private savings and make sure that Social Security is protected for those that have it. 
Because of the Arab Spring, because of a lot of other things, there was turmoil to be followed. 
I'll rely on the middle class and working families...campaign contributions. 
In this economy, the disposable income of the great middle is down 2,300 bucks. 
If you think it's bad now, you should've seen it when I got there. 
Banning all Muslims will make it harder for us to do exactly what we need to do, which is to destroy ISIS. We need a strategy. 
As a result of his efforts and the efforts of Joe Biden against unprecedented, I was there in the Senate, unprecedented Republican obstructionism, we have made enormous progress. 
In recent testimony, the commandant of the Marine Corps said half of the non-deployed units were not ready and you know, the sequester is cutting the heart out of our personnel. 
And I think a lot of people agree with me, obviously, based on what's happening. 
You do not need to go through subtle diplomacy at that point. 
Also, he talked about one of my heroes, Ronald Reagan. 
Now, if he's changed, we're always looking for converts into the conservative movement. 
I know we can afford it, because we're going to make the wealthy pay for it. 
Whenever anybody in this country is killed while in police custody, it should automatically trigger a U.S. attorney general's investigation. 
If we elect Hillary Clinton, the next four years will be worse than the last eight, and our children will be the first Americans ever to inherit a diminished country. 
My tax plan enables you to fill out your taxes on a postcard so we can abolish the IRS. Marco leaves the IRS code in with all of the complexity. 
But let me say this you notice Donald didn't disagree with the substance that he supports taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood. 
Well, let me tell you what the country should really be worried about. 
Who has the experience, who has the knowledge, who has the judgement, who has the clarity, and vision and strength of resolve to keep this country safe. 
It is ridiculous and tragic that people are dying because of the fact that -- that local governments are not following the federal law. 
Wall Street is an entity of unbelievable economic and political power. 
And I've vetoed Planned Parenthood funding, now, eight times in New Jersey. 
We have we have a serious epidemic of drugs that goes way beyond marijuana. 
So if -- if people who are in the private sector know what I stand for, it's what I fought for as a senator, it's what I will do as president, and they want to be part of once again building our economy so it works for everybody, more power to them, because they are the kind of business leaders who understand that if we don't get the American economy moving and growing, we're not going to recognize our country and we're not going to give our kids the same opportunities that we had. 
We saw just this past week the head of the border patrol union testify before Congress that President Obama had given the order to the border patrol to stand down, not to enforce the law. 
We should not be the country that has the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country and more wealth and income inequality than any other country. 
So...You know, at the end of the day, I'm going to continue to talk about my record, because there is, did you ever notice when people run for office, they run for president, they make a lot of promises, they don't keep them. 
New Jersey cut spending over $2.3 billion and we have 10,000 fewer employees than we had when I walked in the door. 
Imagine how hard it is for these people out there that are making 40, 50, $60,000 a year, and they're trying to provide for their families at a time when this economy is not growing. 
Well, I wish you would have asked that question years ago when they broke it. 
Let me start I want to get to the substance of the question on jobs, but I want to start with something. 
I had a casino company Caesars just filed for bankruptcy. 
They will come back some will come back, the best, through a process. 
It really is the embodiment of the incredible opportunity and promise this nation provides. 
And so he got scared that he would be next, and that's why he started cooperating. 
If we learn to lead in the Middle East right now, a coalition will form behind us, but never they do it if we just sit there and talk about it. 
I want to have half a billion more solar panels deployed, the first four years. 
They shouldn't be using the word "mastermind." These are thugs. 
And when countries violate trade agreements or dump product in this country, we need we need to stand up against those countries that do that without making them into an enemy. 
They're going for two reasons, they can't get their money back in. 
And that is that we still don't have the human intelligence: overt, in terms of diplomatic intelligence or covert, to understand even what the heck happens as the secondary and tertiary effects of some of these things. 
I am running for president of the United States because it is too late for establishment politics and establishment economics. 
Well, if that's the case, we're going to win every state, if Bernie Sanders is the nominee. 
It's what we did in the first Persian Gulf war; 1,100 air attacks a day, saturation bombing that utterly destroyed the enemy. 
But it's in the following way, this is an important question. 
I represented Wall Street, as a senator from New York, and I went to Wall Street in December of 2007 before the big crash that we had and I basically said, "cut it out! 
When I'm president of the United States we are getting rid of Obamacare and we are rebuilding our military. 
So, what we are seeing with North Korea is foreshadowing of where we will be with Iran. 
The fact of the matter is we the American people are not each other's enemies, it's those people who are trying to divide us who are the enemies. 
You know, I think my biggest weakness is exactly the opposite. 
A corporate rate of 20 percent, which puts us 5 percent above below that of China, and allows us full expensing of investing. 
So, I've released five years of tax returns already. 
I don't want to just stop bad things from happening, I want to start good things from happening. 
Well then if I don't answer it, then there's another front page, so it's yes. 
When somebody is addicted and seeking help, they should not have to wait three, four months in order to get that help. 
And we have an opportunity now to assemble a coalition of the civilized people, those who respect civilization, the rights of women, the rights to protest, to be able to reassert our leadership all across this globe again and make sure this century is going to be the best we've ever seen. 
We need to combat institutional racism from top to bottom, and we need major, major reforms in a broken criminal justice system In which we have more people in jail than China. 
And there is not a single person in the national defense apparatus of this country that can guarantee you are going to be 100 percent right. 
It is not going to happen that we're going to run around and try to drag 11 and a half million people out of their homes. 
But the one thing that the federal government must do, the one thing that only the federal government can do is keep us safe. 
The combination of these two things has stranded over $2 trillion, the equivalent of the size of the Russian economy, $2 trillion of American corporate money stranded overseas, combined with all of these inversions of companies leaving us. 
He's lost $4,000 in the last seven years in his income because of this administration. 
He worked with Ronald Reagan to pass an effort to try to solve this problem a path to legalization. 
And I'm also aware that California has a drought, and so that's why I made sure I brought my own water. 
And I've already described you know, how we can secure the border. 
Of course, we have to support small and medium-sized businesses. 
So if one of my daughters happened to be that, of course I would love them and I would accept them. 
And it has not had the ill effects that the Republicans are always saying it will have. 
They understand that there's a national security risk. 
So I'm pro life, but I believe there should be exceptions: rape, incest and when the life of the mother is in danger. 
Well, Neil, I'm glad we're focusing on the important topics of the evening. 
We need a rapid response for ebola, we need rapid response for Zika, there will be other things that will come up. 
You look at premiums going up, 25, 35, even 45 percent, and more. 
I'm and I'm meeting with people that are terrific people, but I have to say something because it's about judgment. 
Our Army is set to be smaller than it's been since the second World War, and our Navy is about to be the smallest than it's been in 100 years. 
The democrats are laughing because if republicans join democrats as the party of amnesty, we will lose. 
It's targeted at bombing all of the roads and bridges going in and out of Raqqa. 
These hands by the grace of God have saved many lives and healed many families. 
This group needs to be confronted with serious proposals. 
You know that the United States per capita pays far and away more than other country. 
I said we should go to 65, but only if we have as careful a screening and vetting process as we can imagine, whatever resources it takes because I do not want us to, in any way, inadvertently allow people who wish us harm to come into our country. 
We need to give them liability relief so that we can do that. 
Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton won't tell you that that's the thing that's really hurting middle class in the core. 
When they're arguing about being socialists, they've left they have lost those blue-collar Democrats. 
So, I know this much, that what the American people want to hire right now 
And the Obama-Clinton economy has left behind the working men and women of this country. 
I -- you know, know that Senator Sanders had a different vote than I did when it came to giving immunity to gun makers and sellers. 
We never dreamt we'd ever see it." See, I think there is an opportunity to bring the world together. 
But you know, here's the real issue, is this America anymore? 
That is all they're asking them to do is to disable the self-destruct mode or the auto-erase mode on one phone in the entire world. 
It is a deal that is going to lead to nothing but trouble. 
Look, this election is mostly about the future and therefore it is of greatest urgency for young people. 
I have a detailed immigration plan that is on my website, tedcruz.org. 
Trying to get Iran and Saudi Arabia to work together, as he has suggested in the past, is equally a nonstarter. 
And Kimberley, let me tell you, when we expand Medicaid and we treat the mentally ill, then they don't live under a bridge or live in a prison, where they cost $22,500 a year. 
They're not supporting our law enforcement officers, it's making everybody nervous to get out of their cars, if you're a law enforcement officer. 
Mine is the only plan that saves over $1 trillion and that's why I'm answering your question. 
So this is another example of the double standard that exists in this country between the mainstream media and the conservative movement. 
And when they were deporting the people, the border wasn't secure, so they'd come right back. 
I'm sick and tired of Barack Obama blaming my brother for all of the problems that he has had. 
These are the kinds of things that the NIH, the CDC, can be very effective in. 
If we have evidence that they are infected, and that there is evidence that that infection can spread by something that they're doing, yes. 
And when you put together a budget, you have to make a lot of hard decisions, but I think it's not appropriate to say "I'm going to get rid of this, get rid of that" until you have a very good process that gives you the information about what to do. 
But I would not have gotten those jobs if someone had to pay me a large amount of money. 
And when our Constitution was put in place, the average age of death was under 50, and therefore the whole concept of lifetime appointments for Supreme Court judges and federal judges was not considered to be a big deal. 
Look, first of all, I recognize that Vladimir Putin is an opportunist and he's a bully, and we have to face him down. 
We shouldn't be destroying our economy in order to chase some wild left-wing idea that somehow us by ourselves is going to fix the climate. 
We have done a tremendous disservice, not only to Middle East, we've done a tremendous disservice to humanity. 
I don't know if you remember Donald you remember the the rumble? 
With Saudi Arabia and oil production, first of all, it's so critical for us to be energy independent, and we're getting there because of fracking and we ought to explore because, see, energy independence gives us leverage and flexibility, and secondly, if you want to bring jobs back to the United States of America in industry, low prices make the difference. 
In fact, we need to wait a minute we need vigilance. 
With all of the problems we that we have, in so many instances we have wonderful people coming in. 
There is a war against ISIS, not just against ISIS but against radical jihadists terrorists, and it is a war that they win or we win. 
Once again, I am running a campaign differently than any other candidate. 
And if a young woman in this country wants to go and fight to defend their country, she should be permitted to do so. 
And that's only the beginning of the failures that they have committed, not only in the Middle East, but all over the world, including Russia and China. 
She is the best parent and grandmother that I know. 
That is very different than talking about specific action for regime change, which I did not support. 
China says they don't have that good of control over North Korea. 
But you misswhen you looked at the issues, you missed two of the most important. 
But, I don't believe that Washington should be picking winners and losers. 
Josh, I mean, clearly, when a veteran comes home, they should get health care anywhere they want to go. 
Without exception, what they said, good, excellent, very good. 
We ended up with 56 votes and I couldn't get the 60 votes that I needed. 
I've been asking to testify for some time and to do it in public, which was not originally agreed to. 
So we could go back and forth like this, but the fact is most people watching tonight want to know what we've done and what we will do. 
This is the difference between actually been a federal prosecutor, actually doing something, and not just spending your life as one of hundred debating it. 
I'm spending all of my money, I'm not spending I'm not getting any I turned down I turn down so much, I could have right now from special interests and donors, I could have double and triple what he's got. 
Well, the last point on this is, Senator Sanders, you're the only one on this stage that voted to deregulate the financial market in 2000, to take the cops off the street, to use Governor O'Malley's phrase, to make the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission no longer able to regulate swaps and derivatives, which were one of the main cause of the collapse in '08. 
And the best way to do that is to start talking to our allies again and having them be able to count on our word. 
I've been for pausing on admitting the Syrian refugees. 
A little bit more in taxes, do away with private health insurance premiums. 
Get our economy going, get these people together in a room. 
This year alone, with all the problems they're having, they barely cut their budget from one year to the next. 
It would just you absolutely have to get involved with China, they are taking so much of what we have in terms of jobs in terms of money. 
And they have a desire not simply to conquer the Middle East and to become the dominant power in that region, but ultimately to be able to hold America hostage. 
The fact is, we need to be a party and a people that makes sure that our women in this country understand anything they can dream, anything that they want to aspire to, they can do. 
You know, as I said already twice in this , we have a very serious problem in this country. 
I am proud that I have a pro-family tax code, because the pro- family tax plan I have will strengthen the most important institution in the in the country, the family. 
The fruit salad of their life is what I will look at. 
I don't know of any problem in America that's going to be fixed with a tax increase. 
And I'm very grateful to the brave Navy SEALs who carried out that mission. 
As everybody you know, this is incredibly complicated and difficult issue and I applaud. 
It's probably the toughest negotiation anywhere in the world of any kind. 
But the motivation, they're not all rapists, as you-know-who said. 
As you know, Puerto Rico's in the midst of financial collapse, unable to pay it's debt of $72 billion dollars. 
And the final thing I would say, we're at least having a vigorous debate about reining in Wall Street...
I absolutely believe that what the president did at the time was right. 
It's important to be qualified, but if this election is a resume competition, then Hillary Clinton's gonna be the next president, because she's been in office and in government longer than anybody else running here tonight. 
We have to get down to creating a country that's not going to have the kind of problems that we've had with people flying planes into the World Trade Centers, with the with the shootings in California, with all the problems all over the world. 
I will take her on, and when I take her on I guarantee you one thing, she will never get within 10 miles of the White House. 
Unfortunately today we have a VA that does not do enough for them. 
Well, let me say that I do believe that the vote on NSA made the country less safe. 
When you have Wall Street spending $5 billion over a 10-year period to get -- to get deregulated, the only answer they know is break them up, reestablish Glass-Stegall. 
And number two, if we find out they're developing a nuclear weapon and we know how to get to it, we're gonna go take it out. 
Senator, I have been -- I have been fighting for paid...family leave for a very long time...
Under that theory, not only would I be disqualified, Marco Rubio would be disqualified, Bobby Jindal would be disqualified and, interestingly enough, Donald J. Trump would be disqualified. 
I have a plan that I've put forward to go after ISIS. 
Secondly, in our state, we went from a loss of 350,000 jobs to, now, a gain of 347,000 jobs to the positive. 
Neil, the problem...with what Marco is saying is that it takes too long, they're sucking us dry and it takes too long. 
It's causing tremendous difficulty with respect to drugs and what that does to many of our inner cities in particular. 
In fact, after it happened, the president called my husband -- he called all the former presidents and he said to Bill, "Well I assume Hillary has told you about this." 
In fact, I was all for you until you started doing that, because that's a misrepresentation, number one. 
Under the law, torture is excruciating pain that is equivalent to losing organs and systems, so under the definition of torture, it is not. 
This is not going to make our country great again. 
And what he said is essentially the war against ISIS is a war for the soul of Islam. 
Well, he's just admitted as he's just admitted, the reason why those refugees were allowed in was because they messed up in how they used the actual database. 
But if they come illegally and they get amnesty, that is how we fundamentally change this country, and it really is striking. 
He needs to recognize that those kinds of things are in fact an existential threat to us. 
They got I'm not going to point to these gentlemen, of course, they're part of the problem, other than Ben, in all fairness. 
I believe if we lead an air coalition, which we are now in the position of doing and intensify it, if we continue to build back up the Iraqi army, which has had some recent success in Ramadi, as you know, if we get back talking to the tribal sheiks in Anbar to try to rebuild those relationships, which were very successful, in going after Al Qaida in Iraq, if we get the Turks to pay more attention to ISIS than they're paying to the Kurds, if we do put together the kind of coalition with the specific tasks that I am outlining, I think we can be successful in destroying ISIS. 
Roads, bridges, water systems, wastewater plants, who denies that? 
We're giving them $150 billion dollars plus, they are going to be -- I'll tell you what, if Iran was a stock, you folks should go out and buy it right now because you'll quadruple -- this, what's happening in Iran, is a disgrace, and it's going to lead to destruction in large portions of the world. 
And we have an abundance of energy, but we have archaic energy exportation rules. 
Reagan Love by the way, pretty great name, I think is a teacher. 
But you also have to get rid of all the deductions and all the loopholes because that is the thing that tilts it in one direction or another. 
But I can say, if you created higher capital requirements, that's the solution to this, not having concentration of assets. 
Anyone who really cared about illegal immigration wouldn't be funding Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi; wouldn't be funding the Gang of Eight. 
I want to see us do away with the gun show loophole. 
We were the first state to have state monies go to crisis pregnancy centers, which recently was just increased to $4 million a year. 
The Russians and rogue actors, including ISIS this is a serious part of the 21st century security challenge that we face. 
If this is something he cares about, why has he supported anti-Israel politicians from Jimmy Carter to Hillary Clinton to John Kerry for four decades? 
We've now closed the state prison closed a state prison, and we're turning it into a drug rehabilitation facility, so people can get the tools they need. 
Because as an executive, you've got to solve problems instead of fighting on the front page of the newspaper. 
You know, it's it's a fact that if you can pay for a $79 one-way ticket to Orlando, and you can escape the challenges of a declining economy and high crime rates, you move to Orlando. 
The great majority of people that come to this country come because they have no other choice. 
I haven't talked to Secretary Carter, but here's what I would think he's planning. 
It can be corrected with an act of Congress, probably doesn't even need that. 
I've been very nice to you, although I could probably maybe not be, based on the way you have treated me. 
It would be very, very hard to do, and we it is not our biggest problem. 
Well, this is another area on which Donald agrees with Hillary Clinton and on which I disagree with them both strongly. 
Because there will be no effective efforts against climate change unless China and India join with the rest of the world. 
You can't have a strong country without strong people, you cannot have strong people without strong values, and you cannot have strong values without strong families and the institutions in this country that defend and support those families. 
What a Medicare-for-all program does is finally provide in this country health care for every man, woman and child as a right. 
And not only did he keep us safe, but no matter what you want to say about weapons of mass destruction, Saddam Hussein was in violation of U.N. resolutions, in open violation, and the world wouldn't do anything about it, and George W. Bush enforced what the international community refused to do. 
I know President Obama's been getting a lot of criticism on this. 
The biggest problem we have is nuclear nuclear proliferation and having some maniac, having some madman go out and get a nuclear weapon. 
You know, the opening question Jerry asked, would you bail out the big banks again? 
Well, first of all, he, as I said, supported John Roberts. 
I think I'm going to win fair and square to win this way. 
In fact, what they will begin to say to local communities is, you will not get federal money unless do you things the way we want you to do it. 
And one point I want to make here that is not made very often, you have incredibly wealthy countries in that region, countries like Saudi Arabia, countries like Qatar. 
He's weak on immigration by the way, in favor of Common Core, which is also a disaster, but weak on immigration. 
So for me, it is looking at what works and what we need to do to try to move past what happened in '08. 
You know, you go to the internet, you start reading an article and you go to the comments section you cannot go five comments down before people are calling each all manner of names. 
And the fact is that we need a commander-in- chief who not only understands how to protect us, but feels in here what it means to face the possibility of loss. 
And I intend to keep talking about the issues that matter to the American people. 
No, it is not throwing -- it is an extraordinary investment for this country. 
But, second of all, and maybe, in a deeper reason, of course there are barbaric acts out there. 
We need to repeal and replace Obamacare and we need to improve higher education so that people can have access to the skills they need for 21st century jobs. 
I will unite this country around common purposes because I did it as governor of the state of Florida. 
And I think the states ought to create these standards. 
I have worked on this for a long time, people may remember that I took on the health insurance industry back in the '90s, and I didn't quit until we got the children's health insurance program that ensures eight million kids. 
I mean, it was going to really do a big job in terms of economic development. 
But I have been on the forefront of dealing with climate change, starting in 2009, when President Obama and I crashed (ph) a meeting with the Chinese and got them to sign up to the first international agreement to combat climate change that they'd ever joined. 
Well, I would certainly build on the successes of the Affordable Care Act and work to fix some of the glitches that you just referenced. 
I have done it twice, and I want to go back to Washington and do it again. 
I want to make our country greater than it's ever been. 
I mean, let me be honest with the people who are watching at home. 
But what is to prevent a future liberal president or a liberal Congress from coming back and not just raising the income tax, but also raising that VAT tax, and that vat tax is really bad for seniors. 
We would still have LGBT people who get married on Saturday and get fired on Monday. 
Well, I don't know if it's a blind trust if Ivanka, Don and Eric run it. 
And I believe that we need to restore America's presence and leadership in the world. 
Six million more people are living in poverty than the day that Barack Obama got elected president. 
Here's my promise, at the end of my first term as president we will not have more people in jail than any other country. 
Well, some people might think, yeah, that had some influence. 
And around the world, America's reputation is in decline. 
Before I get to that, this is the ninth or 10th debate. 
He said that very simply because he has failed in this campaign. 
But you have not been in the United States Congress. 
Either they win or we win, and we had better take this risk seriously, it is not going away on its own. 
You got Kuwait and you got Qatar and you got Saudi Arabia. 
I've heard a lot of hot rhetoric here tonight, but I've got to tell you, as somebody that actually passed a budget; that paid down a half-a-trillion dollars of our national debt, you can't do it alone. 
And on substance, how do we nominate a candidate who has said Hillary Clinton was the best secretary of state of modern times, who agreed with her on foreign policy, who agrees with Bernie Sanders on health care, who agreed with Barack Obama on the Wall Street bailout? 
But I don't want us to be painting with too broad a brush. 
And we just got to make sure that every American has the tools, in K-through-12 and in vocational education, in higher education. 
We, the people, are the only people who will determine that. 
You should not use eminent domain for private purposes. 
In fact, more so, for it is the king of Saudi Arabia they want to behead first. 
But the leaders have come forward to realize that protest is fine, but violence is wrong. 
The only choice before America that this president had to make is, does it happen quickly or does it take a long time? 
Well Maria, I would note you made the exact same point here that I made at the last debate, and you're right that Senator Rubio called me a liar for saying that. 
As far as the refugees are concerned, it's not that America doesn't want to accept refugees, Wolf. 
And let me give you a contrast to Washington cronyism. 
Nidal Hasan communicated with Anwar al-Awlaki, a known radical cleric, asked about waging jihad against his fellow soldiers. 
The Rosa Parks, an everyday American that changed the course of history. 
I'm a conservative, pro-life governor in a state where it is really tough to be both. 
but I think it's important to note that it is and Senator Cruz, I think, was alluding to this, as well it is the standard procedure of the United States, if those missiles pose a threat to land, civilians, our allies or any of our assets, to shoot down that missile in mid-flight. 
But I promise you, in the state of South Carolina, they do. 
And he also had no trouble appointing an investment banker to be in charge of his consumer protection bureau when he was governor. 
Twelve million illegal immigrants, to send them back, 500,000 a month, is just not not possible. 
Those aren't Iowa values, but this is what we believe in New York." 
I think that's very different from, you know, somebody misinterpreting, when I said that I was offered a scholarship to West Point, that is the words that they used. 
In fact, wages adjusted for inflation haven't risen since the turn of the last century, after my husband's administration. 
It is refundable, not just against the taxes they pay to the government, but also the on their federal income tax, it's refundable against the payroll tax. 
These are people that are coming to provide for their families. 
But, right now, we're not going to get healing with President Obama. 
A four percent growth strategy means you fix a convoluted tax code. 
We have $2.5 trillion outside of the United States which we want to bring back in. 
First of all, he was in charge of amnesty, he was the leader, and you can ask Marco because they've been debating this every debate that we've had. 
Now, I am pleased to hear that Senator Sanders has reversed his position on immunity and I look forward to him joining with those members of congress who have already introduced legislation. 
The big banks get bigger and bigger and bigger under Dodd-Frank and community banks are going out of business. 
the bust of Winston Churchill will be back in the Oval Office, and the American embassy in Israel will be in Jerusalem. 
We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating, and our government spending was far less than the spending in people's income. 
So, what I would tell you is, we've gone from an $8 billion hole to a $2 billion surplus. 
We had a decision to make early on, do we do a Super PAC? 
But it is very different from what is going on today. 
And as president, I will fight to make that happen. 
You know, you look at what's going on, you see all the divisiveness and the hatred that goes on in our society. 
And I created a big collaborative in Ohio made up of law enforcement, community leaders, the head of my public safety and a former Democrat, liberal Senate senator Nina Turner, run it. 
Why is it that the United States of America today is the only major country on earth that does not guarantee health care to all people as a right? 
It really is important that we go forward on this. 
Well, when people talk about interrogating terrorists, they're acting like this is some sort of law enforcement function. 
When I'm president, we're going to have a president that acts like it. 
What we've been doing so far is very ineffective, but we can't give up ground right there. 
Putting Iranian troops right on the border of the Golan right next to Israel would be a nonstarter for me. 
I think we need to begin to refocus on rebuilding our military because every time we have cut our military in the history of this country we have had to come back later and rebuild it, and it costs more, and it's a lot more chaotic and dangerous. 
You know, it took the telephone 75 years to reach 100 million users. 
You know, I mention that the 25 programs that I put today, that I would eliminate them. 
We carpet bombed them for 36 days, saturation bombing, after which our troops went in and in a day and a half mopped up what was left of the Iraqi army. 
They have a sophisticated understanding of our legal immigration system and we now have an obligation to ensure that they are not able to use that system against us. 
Yes, I do believe there must be a tax on Wall Street speculation. 
They have been ignored, and we need to help them as well...and assert ourselves as America. 
They knew that they were talking about trying to take our country and attack it. 
Anti-terrorism is about finding out information to prevent a future attack so the same tactics do not apply. 
And remember this, after Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama have had nearly 8 years, we have fewer democracies in the world than we had when they started. 
And if you want to know who's telling the truth, you should look and ask people like Jeff Sessions and Steve King and Rush Limbaugh and Mark Levin, all of whom say, as Jeff Sessions said, responding to these false attacks just recently in Alabama he said, "if it wasn't for Ted Cruz, the Gang of Eight Rubio/Schumer bill would have passed. 
The president receives an inspector general's report that the Office of Personnel Management could be hacked into; they had antiquated firewalls; 23 million files have been are in the hands of the Chinese allegedly, including, by the way, members of the press, it turns out, last week. 
We have to get rid of the lines around the states so that there's serious, serious competition. ...
There are millions of people watching this broadcast tonight that understand exactly what I'm talking about. 
This was a disaster for our country, and we can never let that happen again. 
But I'll tell you what would have happened, if we had not joined with our European partners and our Arab partners to assist the people in Libya, you would be looking at Syria. 
I think, clearly, we got to work closely with China to resolve the serious problems we have, and I worry about Putin and his military adventurism in the Crimea and the Ukraine. 
There's a lot we have to do on immigration reform, on voting rights, on campaign finance reform, but we need to do it together. 
In the eight years before I became Governor, spending was increased 56 percent, and in the eight years before I became governor, there was zero net private sector job growth in New Jersey. 
And we need to put people on the bench that understand that the Constitution is not a living and breathing document. 
Well, you know, both Bill and I have been very blessed. 
And that's why they have it in Europe, because it is a way to blindfolded the people, that's what Ronald Reagan said. 
It is a budget larger than the next eight countries'. 
And the net result is, you're going to take away rights of of law-abiding citizens, the 99.999 percent of the people that are law- abiding citizens. 
If their states agree, then we want more states to do the same thing. 
That's what I worry about, for my children, and for their children, going forward. 
We have a lot of work to do with Iran before we ever say that they could move toward normalized relations with us. 
You have to be able to assess what is acceptable and what is not. 
During that entire battle, and indeed during every battle on Israel the natural question is, where was Donald? 
We've got to be responsible about what we propose on the tax side. 
The same is happening in the Asia-Pacific region with accommodations to North Korea. 
He spoke the other night to the American people to reassure us. 
Chris Christie wrote a check to Planned Parenthood. 
But here is the issue, Secretary touched on it, can you really reform Wall Street when they are spending millions and millions of dollars on campaign contributions and when they are providing speaker fees to individuals? 
And yes, when I am president of the United States, if there is some place in this country where radical jihadists are planning to attack the United States, we will go after them wherever they are, and if we capture them alive, they are going to Guantanamo. 
That will save thousands of dollars for people who are now struggling under this cumbersome, burdensome college debt. 
And remember this I'm credible on this for this reason: Americans for Tax Reform says that I've vetoed more tax increases than any governor in American history. 
Yes, we could get rid of Saddam Hussein, but that destabilized the entire region. 
The insurance companies are getting rich on health care and health services and everything having to do with health. 
I'm talking about a wall that can absolutely be built, and I'll build it on time, on budget. 
There is a time when you can use your intellect to come up with other ways to do things. 
Well, you know, your question highlights a sharp difference on immigration on this stage. 
You supported it when we were battling over defunding Planned Parenthood. 
And then on top of that, we are the only one that has a worldwide system of taxation, where an American company who makes money abroad has to pay taxes where they made the money and then taxes a second time when they bring it back. 
If you're a Washington lobbyist, if you make your money in and around Washington, things are doing great. 
We have to move away from treating the use of drugs as a crime and instead, move it to where it belongs, as a health issue. 
I don't know if people understand, but I spent a lifetime with my colleagues getting us to a federal balanced budget. 
I am very proud that over the years we have had the support in my state of Vermont from very significant majorities of women. 
These efforts we've taken over the last three years, 2015 in New Jersey, for the first time in four years, drug overdose deaths have gone down, not up. 
To help us bring down student debt we're going to refinance that student debt, saving kids thousands of dollars. 
But, I'm also looking at what doctor at what Governor Huckabee talked about...
And by the way, Mexico and almost every other country anywhere in the world doesn't have that. 
They are making every time we step back, they're on the run. 
People need to know that free college is not it's a non-starter. 
Here in this country, they never made it big, but the very purpose of their life was to give us the chance to do all the things they never could. 
There is a reason Khamenei refers to Israel as the little Satan, and America as the great Satan. 
Just know where you want to go, stick to your guts. 
When extraordinarily wealthy people make very large contributions to Super PACs, and in many cases in this campaign, Super PACs have raised more money than individual candidates have, OK? 
We need to focus on building a military that is second-to-none...so that we can destroy Islamic terrorism. 
One of them being that if you don't have some agreement within the system from states and from families and from students, it's hard to get to where we need to go. 
They know my record, they know me, they know that I say what I believe and I will do it. 
And the net effect of this is we need to jump-start the economy. 
We have the world's best military, even though he's done everything he can to diminish it. 
I'll tell you what else they're upset about: you're 50 or 51 years old, and some kid walks in and tells you you're out of work, and you don't know where to go and where to turn. 
You may not be aware of this, Donald, because you don't follow this stuff very closely, but here's what happened. 
And to assume that someone would, what does that tell you? 
We need a president who can do all aspects of the job. 
We have a huge mental health problem in this country. 
And by the way, the police are the most mistreated people in this country. 
But I will say I will say I will say that I was very disappointed that members of his team thought so little of me that they thought that after having hundreds, if not thousands of volunteers and college students who sacrificed their time and were dedicated to the cause one even died to think that I would just walk away ten minutes before the caucus and say, "Forget about you guys.
And I'm running for president because I want that to still be possible for the people trying to do that now. 
Why should we let their people be sitting there smoking their cigars, sitting in their comfortable chairs in Raqqa? 
It means that we end minimum sentencing for those people arrested. 
Now you are a worker, white worker, black worker, who had a decent job, that manufacturing job is gone. 
You know, both of my parents were born into poor families on the island of Cuba. 
But I do believe and maybe it's because I worked when I went through college; I worked when I went through law school I think it's important for everybody to have some part of getting this accomplished. 
I did say, when I was secretary of state, three years ago, that I hoped it would be the gold standard. 
But I will tell you exactly how I pay for everything I've proposed...
What I've said is for seniors we should make no changes whatsoever, for younger workers we should gradually raise the retirement age, we should have benefits grow more slowly, and we should allow them to keep a portion of their taxes in a personal account that they control, and can pass on to their kids... 
At the same time, we know that in many parts of our country police officers are bridging those divides and they're acting heroically. 
I see my good friend, Senator Gillibrand, in the front row. 
Republicans win when there is a low voter turnout, and that is what happened last November. 
It could be people that are going to do great, great destruction. 
You're talking about groups of people trying to overthrow Assad, other groups of people fighting ISIS. 
We need to protect the people who Social Security means the difference between picking between heat and rent and food. 
As we speak, there are new problems on the horizon. 
Let me just tell you, I mentioned before, China big Chinese company bought the Chicago Exchange. 
We ought to talk about arming South Korea with ballistic missile technology. 
Everyone out at home watching tonight understands that principle. 
He could have raised all the issues that he has raised. 
For example, before you hire anyone from abroad, you should have to advertise that job for 180 days. 
I have gone time and time again to take on the vested interests who would keep women's health care decisions the province of the government instead of women ourselves. 
And, indeed, my tax plan that I've introduced, it's available on our website. 
Every major country on earth, whether it's the U.K., whether it's France, whether it's Canada, has managed to provide healthcare to all people as a right and they are spending significantly less per capita on health care than we are. 
Well, I don't know anything about bankrupting four companies. 
It was a back sacrifice, and I have to hand it to Ben. 
But the fact is, had we had acted, we would have solved that problem. 
Now, let me just say, I've used it, just like the biggest leaders in the country. 
He told everyone who would listen that they have begged for permission from the coalition to target caravans. 
If I'm our nominee, I will unite this party and we'll defeat Hillary Clinton and we will turn this country around once and for all, after seven years of the disaster that is Barack Obama. 
When Jeb had said, "You used eminent domain privately for a parking lot.
She's going to be able to run for one reason, and that's because the Democrats are protecting her. 
I want to go even deeper and I want to go even deeper in that direction, because I think the belief that somehow by retreating, America makes the world safer has been disproven every single time it's ever been tried. 
This is one of the great tragedies in our country today. 
And remember this, I'm the only one up here, when the war of Iraq in Iraq, I was the one that said, "Don't go, don't do it, you're going to destabilize the Middle East." 
This is why closing Guantanamo is a complete disaster. 
One of the real challenges with both Donald and Senator Rubio is that they have agreed over and over again with both Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. 
Could I could I bring something up here, because I'm a constituent of the senator and I helped him and I expected that he would do constituent service, which means that he shows up to work. 
The problem in the past has been we have appointed people thinking you can get it through the Senate because they didn't have a record. 
Mitt Romney looked like a fool when he delayed and delayed and delayed. 
If I was a Puerto Rican, I'd vote for statehood so that they have full citizenship. 
I understand that, that's what you do in campaigns, but at the same time let's not bein, I think an unfair way, making an accusation, or making an attack about where I stand and about where I've always stood. 
Bencarson.com, go read about it, because my tax plan has been praised by Cato, by Wall Street Journal. 
And that's why I'm going to ask you for your vote tonight. 
Many of the great business people that you know and Carl Icon (ph) is going to work with me on making great deals for this country. 
Well, I think, Judy, what has to be appreciated is that, as a result of the disastrous and illegal behavior on Wall Street, millions of lives were hurt. 
But, as far as the Ukraine is concerned, and you could Syria as far as Syria, I like if Putin wants to go in, and I got to know him very well because we were both on 60 Minutes, we were stablemates, and we did very well that night. 
And it's not because we're not compassionate to the plight of a 2 someone who came here when they were 2 years old. 
And I think that the coalition that President Obama put together to win twice is a coalition that I can put together and add to. 
So I think it's pretty clear what their obvious goal is. 
Because if you are, you need to elect someone who's deadly serious about changing this culture. 
It's no longer enough just to say the vast majority of Americans want common sense gun safety measures including gun owners. 
And I have to tell you, I would not want -- if I lived in Iowa, Terry Branstad administering my health care. 
I say, yes, not only do we give them what they need, but we don't tie their hands behind their backs so that they can go ahead and get the job done. 
And the problem that underlies all of this is the cronyism and corruption of Washington. 
We have fought, as Democrats, for decades to get a health care plan. 
Indeed, I led the fight against his legalization and amnesty. 
We need a unifier, not a cynical divider in chief, and that's exactly what I will do. 
When I am president of the United States, I'm going to side with Ronald Regan on this and not Nancy Pelosi and we are not having a vat tax. 
We're on the verge of economic collapse and, you know, we're it's not just the $19 trillion, but it's also the $200 trillion in unfunded liabilities. 
My view right now and always has been is that when you have 11 million undocumented people in this country, we need comprehensive immigration reform, we need a path toward citizenship, we need to take people out of the shadows. 
Because that's the way that they're able to gather a lot of influence. 
They didn't find anything and they won't find anything because I'm a very honest person. 
And, we've been kicking the can down the road on this for, I don't know, 15 years. 
But they were successful people, because, despite the fact that they weren't well educated and had those jobs, they made enough money to buy a home in a safe and stable neighborhood, retire with dignity, leave all four of their children better off than themselves. 
A majority of the men and women on this stage have previously and publicly embraced amnesty. 
That means on day one his illegal executive amnesty goes away with the strike of a pen. 
I want to go back to the discussion we had a minute ago because, you know, what was said was right. 
And every law enforcement should carry the antidote to overdose, Naloxone, so that they can save lives that are on the brink of expiring. 
I have a plan to create new jobs, manufacturing, infrastructure, clean energy jobs that will make us the 21st century clean energy super power. 
You know, for the 45-year-old construction worker out there, who is having a hard time making things meet. 
Two days ago he said he would take his pants off and moon everybody, and that's fine. 
And they send the bad ones over because they don't want to pay for them. 
Sure, because bankruptcy doesn't work unless you change the way you're operating, or you're going to be bankrupt again. 
A historic number of people came out and voted in those caucuses. 
There is no disagreement between us on universal coverage for health care, the disagreement is where do we start from and where do we end up. 
Look, we're all in agreement that the Japanese need to do more. 
We should be fighting Obamacare, repealing Obamacare, replacing it with something totally different. 
I will change the culture in Washington, just as I changed the culture in Tallahassee. 
They explode the bomb, we have an electromagnetic pulse. 
Nobody has control of me other than the people of this country. 
You know, we've got the highest rate of military enlistment among hispanics in any demographic in this country. 
It requires tax cuts, because that sends a message to the job creators that things are headed the right way. 
And I'll tell you what I'm worried about I'm worried about money. 
Except the reporters, because they're a very dishonest lot, generally speaking, in the world of politics, they didn't cover my statement the way I said it. 
Now he is a passionate opponent of all those things. 
The people that took the course all signed most many many signed report cards saying it was fantastic, it was wonderful, it was beautiful. 
Terrorism radical jihadist terrorism is not theoretical to me. 
But I think in terms of our priorities in the region, our first priority must be the destruction of ISIS. 
And if anything comes out of this whole thing with some of these nasty and ridiculous questions, I will tell you, you better get rid of the SuperPacs because they causing a big problem with this country, not only in dishonesty and what's going on, but also in a lot of bad decisions that have been made for the benefit of lobbyists and special interests. 
So, instead of paying $10,000 dollars to Blue Cross, or Blue Shield, yes, some middle class families would be paying slightly more in taxes, but the result would be that that middle class family would be saving some $5,000 dollars in healthcare costs. 
On two occasions, there were breeches in information two months ago. 
That is why I'm going to have a tax on Wall Street speculation to make certain that public colleges and universities in America are tuition free. 
And this is not leading from behind is not an effective policy. 
What this campaign is not only about electing someone who has the most progressive agenda, it is about bringing tens of millions of people together to demand that we have a government that represents all of us and not just the 1 percent, who today have so much economic and political power. 
But Martha, just Martha, just to clarify on that point, because he's right, and one more thing to point it is standard procedure of the United States to shoot down those missiles once launched if they pose a threat to civilians, land and ships. 
If I could, let me just say that of course it has to change. 
I was on morning Joe at a town hall and a young student stood up and said, "Can I still be idealistic?
And the objective has to be utterly and completely destroying ISIS. Obama hasn't started with that objective and everything else flows from there. 
The rest of the world is moving away from us towards other alliances because we are weak. 
We will repeal Obamacare, abolish of IRS, secure the border, and bring back jobs.
I don't believe the United States should involve itself in civil wars. 
RealClearPolitics he has lost to Hillary on eight of them. 
Wolf, I believe in a America first foreign policy, that far too often President Obama and Hillary Clinton and, unfortunately, more than a few Republicans have gotten distracted from the central focus of keeping this country safe. 
Secondly, I think it's important to point out that about 3 percent of my donations come from people in the finance and investment world. 
It's a deal that was designed for China to come in, as they always do, through the back door and totally take advantage of everyone. 
Understanding that Iran's behavior in so many ways is something that we disagree with; their support terrorism, the anti-American rhetoric that we're hearing from of their leadership is something that is not acceptable. 
I would note, just for a historic aside, somebody told me earlier today we've had like 200 presidential primary debates, and this is the first time there have been a majority of women on the stage. 
There is a lunatic in North Korea with dozens of nuclear weapons and long-range rocket that can already hit the very place in which we stand tonight. 
You can read about everything that's been discussed here in great detail. 
But you haven't asked me a question in a while, Neil, so I thought I'd get that off my chest if you don't mind. 
Well, first, the most important job of being president is obviously to keep our country safe and to keep the families of America safe. 
You know, one of the things, Andrea, and I that question annoys me. 
But it was not on a second filing with FDIC and yes, I made a paperwork error disclosing it on one piece of paper instead of the other. 
Now I don't know whether he'll do it or not, but let's force him to do it. 
On September 11, my wife was two blocks from the World Trade Center. 
I want to give you a little trip around the world. 
And let me just say a word about coalition-building, because I've heard Senator Sanders say this. 
If you want to make it into the middle class -- I'm not saying in all cases -- we need plumbers, and we need carpenters, and electricians, that's for sure, and they should get help as well. 
We've had a city in the United States of America where the population which is poor in many ways and majority African American has been drinking and bathing in lead contaminated water. 
We're last night, I was in South Carolina, we had 12,000 people. 
But I'm not deciding that anybody's got to make these decisions the way that I do, on the basis of what I do. 
I voted for it, but right now, what we have to deal with is the fact that 29 million people still have no health insurance. 
Because every issue that I am talking about-- paid family and medical leave, breaking up the banks on Wall Street, asking the wealth to pay their fair share of taxes, rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure, raising the minimum wage to 15 bucks an hour -- every one of those issues is supported by a significant majority of the American people. 
And ultimately, I hope that my Air Force One, if I become president, will one day land in a free Cuba, where its people can choose its leaders and its own destiny.
Do I get to do it five or six times or just once, responding to that? 
I do and this is an important issue and I know we'll get to a lot of other critical ones as well. 
And what I think all of us are saying is, our monetary policy, our tax policy, regulatory policy needs to be radically changed so we can create high sustained growth for income to rise. 
There are other attorneys that feel, and very, very fine constitutional attorneys, that feel that because he was not born on the land, he cannot run for office. 
That's essentially what we have now, and we don't need that. 
And that's why I've been clear, when I am the president of the United States of America, we don't know who you are, and we don't know why you're trying to come to the United States, you are not going to get in, because the radical threat that we now face from ISIS is extraordinary and unprecedented and when I'm president, we are keeping ISIS out of America. 
Sugar farmers farm under under roughly 0.2% of the farmland in America, and yet they give 40% of the lobbying money. 
Goldman Sachs has given this country two secretaries of treasury, one on the Republicans, one under Democrats. 
Well, four years ago, I said, bomb the oil and take the oil. 
We've got 11 million undocumented people in this country. 
But as you've indicated for millions of American workers, people in New Hampshire -- all over America, they're working longer hours for lower wages deeply worried about their kids. 
We can't afford to have another four years like the last eight years. 
And what I have concluded is that the best policy is to get rid of all government subsidies, and get the government out of our lives, and let people rise and fall based on how good they are. 
By the way, no nation on earth is more generous than America is. 
That's why I put out the proposal and that's the people I'm trying to...
For once, let's do that, and stop trying to give them some kind of fantasy that's never going to come true. 
I would ask them to listen to what I'm proposing, look at what I've accomplished in the Senate, as secretary of of state, and then draw your own conclusion. 
Hi, I'm Ben Carson, and I'm a retired pediatric neurosurgeon. 
Freedom is personal for me, and I will always keep my word and fight for freedom.
Well, let me begin by saying that we have to understand who ISIS is. 
For a generation, they defined conservatism as limited government and free enterprise and a strong national defense. 
You know what they say to people with a wink and a nod? 
It is what she said, and all that I said was there's nothing wrong with being a moderate. 
And the fact of the matter is, we went from an $8 billion hole to a $2 billion surplus. 
So what we need to do is support small and medium-sized businesses, the backbone of our economy, but we have to make sure that every family in this country gets a fair shake...not just for billionaires. 
We can't have the history in recent past is appoint people that have no experience so that you can't get attacked. 
In Ohio, we reduced Medicaid funding for the poor from 10 percent to 2.5 percent, didn't cut one benefit or didn't take anybody off the rolls. 
With 100 percent certainly, I will predict the winner it will either be Denver or Carolina. 
You are going to have to bring people you are going to have to send people out. 
The one thing we want to prevent is we want to prevent Iran being able to extend a Shia crescent all across the Middle East. 
Yes, of course, raise the minimum wage, but we have to do so much more, including finding ways so that companies share profits with the workers who helped to make them. 
Because 53 percent of our electricity comes from nuclear. 
In fact, it's not just hedge fund people, but people that are doing they're in the business of investing other people's money, getting capital gains treatment is not appropriate. 
And as we move towards dealing with foreign aid, I don't disagree with Senator Paul's position that we shouldn't be funding our enemies. 
I go around the country, talk to a whole lot of people. 
You know, we had this incident before, Secretary, with your famous e-mails. 
And as it relates to all the other organizations, let me give you a good example. 
Now, here's the if they cheat, we slap the sanctions back on. 
I served on the Defense Committee for 18 years, and by the way, one of the members of that committee was Senator Strom Thurmond from South Carolina. 
Well, I created a task force well over a year ago and the purpose was to bring law enforcement, community people, clergy and the person that I named as one of the co-chair was a lady by the name of Nina Turner, a former State Senator, a liberal Democrat. 
They want a political revolution in which millions of Americans stand up, come together, not let the Trumps of the world divide us, and say, you know what, in this great country, we need a government that represents all of us, not just a handful of wealthy campaign contributors. 
You know, people are actually watching this at home. 
So I know that there are some left-wing media who would try to make hay on that. 
It is a felony with ten years' jail term to sell the body parts of unborn children for profit. 
That's because he got Ben Carson's votes, by the way, but we won't . 
Because I have used the laws of this country just like the greatest people that you read about every day in business have used the laws of this country, the chapter laws, to do a great job for my company, for myself, for my employees, for my family, et cetera. 
And we seem to be afraid to give the Kurds weaponry. 
That is the way we deal with global warming, climate change, or any of those problems, not through government intervention, not through government taxes, and for God's sake, don't send Washington another dime until they stop wasting the money they're already sending there. 
Now, Ted's been very critical I have a sister who's a brilliant...excuse me. 
But the first duty of the next president of the United States is to fix the mess at the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
Yeah, again, as I said, we're raising a family in the 21st century and it's one of the reasons why my tax plan is a pro- family tax plan. 
This has gone on 50 or 60 years where the United States has been involved in overthrowing governments. 
Well, my Mom is here, so I don't think we should be pushing any grannies off cliffs. 
So I just truly, with all my heart belief, I like everybody on the stage. 
Now, when Secretary Clinton says, "I'm not going raise taxes on the middle class," let me tell you what she is saying. 
So when somebody like Donald Trump and others stirs up the demagoguery against American Muslims, that hurts us at home. 
And while Donald Trump was building a reality TV show, my brother was building a security apparatus to keep us safe. 
But you can't get to that third step until you have done the other two things, and that was the lesson we learned in 2013. 
It's their time to bail out the middle class, help our kids be able to go to college tuition-free. 
is we want to utilize the tremendous intellect that we have in the military to win wars. 
You don't want any American to lose their house, everything they've saved, because they get sick. 
But the war that we are fighting now against radical Islamist jihadists is one that we must win. 
And I'll tell you, Bret, I think that's a much more attractive vision for healthcare than the Washington-drive, top-down Obamacare that is causing so many millions of people to hurt. 
You take a look at just the attack in California the other day. 
But on the other hand, I havewhen I was in the House for 16 years, I caucused with the Democrats. 
No, I did not oppose when the legislature passed the bill to deal with that very issue. 
It's particularly a problem in the black community. 
And I may be an entertainer, because I've had tremendous success with number-one bestsellers all over the place, with "The Apprentice" and everything else I've done. 
The hedge fund guys won't like me as much as they like me right now. 
I will enforce the law, and for everyone who says, you can't possibly do that, I would note that in eight years, Bill Clinton deported 12 million people. 
We're one of the fastest growing states in the country. 
And this president, given what Ted said right at the beginning, he's absolutely right. 
And just to finish, people say, how will you get Mexico to pay? 
We have been lied to, and we need a strong leader to tell the truth and fix...
We did it because she was showing symptoms, and the fact is that's the way we should make these decision. 
Look, the conservative message is economic growth and along with economic growth goes opportunity for everybody in America. 
The fact is and if for some reason he beats the rest of the field, he beats the rest of the field . 
People that have come into our country illegally, they have to go. 
And I am proud to have been one of the people on the stage who was part of making sure that what Governor Bush said before was the truth. 
You know, there was reference made to our leaders being stupid. 
What it means is using overwhelming air power to utterly and completely destroy ISIS. To put things in perspective, in the first Persian Gulf War, we launched roughly 1,100 air attacks a day. 
Because economic growth, it's foundational to every other challenge we have. 
I am very proud, I do not have a super PAC. I do not want Wall Street's money. 
But it also has to be securing the borders, because you have got Mexican cartels that are smuggling vast amounts of heroin into this country. 
And you know, all of this too big to fail stuff and picking and choosing winners and losers this is a bunch of crap, and it is really causing a great deal of great deal of problems for our society right now. 
On January 20th, 2017, the next president of the United States will walk into the White House. 
It's got great people, it's got loving people, wonderful people. 
But, again, I just want to reiterate, I think it's really important, this point. 
And he allows states to go ahead and do whatever they want on a substance that's illegal. 
And then they didn't find anything, so they said let's look at the whole year. 
You cannot destroy ISIS with a military that's being diminished. 
I even appointed adjudge to the Ohio Supreme Court. 
Bottom line is a path towards citizenship for 11 million undocumented people, if Congress doesn't do the right thing, we use the executive orders of the president. 
But they also appealed to our hopes and our dreams. 
Right after me, and then I'll I'll yield yield the floor. 
She actually ran against one of my friends and our head of public safety. 
And I won every one the three of them that I won, I won with record-setting numbers. 
He became most importantly, he became a great president. 
Here's the facts: When Donald Trump talks about judgment, what was his position on who would've been the best negotiator to deal with Iran? 
You you don't...I'm not afraid . ...first of all, he's talking about the polls. 
Let's also understand that back in 1988 when I first ran for the United States Congress, way back then, I told the gun owners of the state of Vermont and I told the people of the state of Vermont, a state which has virtually no gun control, that I supported a ban on assault weapons. 
And Donald Trump supported John Kerry against George W. Bush in 2004, gave him a check. 
Hi, my name is Chris Christie, and I'd like to you take the camera off me and put it on the audience because I'd like to ask all of you, how many of you, raise your hand, believe that in today's Barak Obama America your children will have a better life than you've had? 
We have the ability to do it, we don't have the will to do it. 
Secondly, we would means test Social Security for those who are making over $200,000 dollars a year in retirement income, and have $4 to $5 million dollars in liquid assets saved. 
Well, and today, we have a left-wing government under this president that is undermining all of the institutions and society that support the family and teach those values. 
And they say down as a group trying to make sure that we can begin to heal some of these problems that we see between community and police. 
One of the problems of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton's foreign policy, and, sadly, too many establishment Republicans in Washington, is they focus on issues unrelated to protecting this country. 
That is the appropriate approach in order to get the results that you are seeking. 
None of these instances that the president points to as the reason why he's doing these things would have been preventive. 
But if I become president, I couldn't care less about my company. 
First of all, the only people that follow the law are law-abiding people. 
Let me just tell you that Dwight Eisenhower, good president, great president, people liked him. 
You used to support legalizing people that were here illegally, now you say you're against it. 
So we have to go after this both abroad and at home. 
I would get on with China, let China solve that problem. 
And of course, it has to be de-conflicted with the Russians, who are also flying in that space. 
You sit down in a back room and you sit down with the parties and you get this worked out. 
Now, I recognize that the vast majority of people coming in here probably are not those kinds of people, but that's not good enough. 
We don't have procurement being done for refreshing the equipment. 
So I have proposed debt free tuition, which I think is affordable and I would move a lot of the Pell Grant and other aid into the arena where it could be used for living expense. 
What we really need to be thinking about is how do we get this disease under control? 
I am not going to talk about big ideas like single-payer and then not level with people about how much it will cost. 
Because people are starting to understand, very clearly, that this election is going to be a turning point. 
I am going to campaign as hard as I can between now and Tuesday to earn your votes in that primary, and I hear some talk that people are trying to decide do they vote with their heart, do they vote with their head, I'm asking you to bring both your heart and your head to vote with you on Tuesday because we have a lot of work that can only come because your heart is moved. 
And I do believe it is important also to recognize, you want to talk about religious discrimination in America. 
I just want to thank all my colleagues here for being civil, and not falling for the traps. 
Let me tell you right now, Donald, I will not apologize for a minute for defending the Constitution. 
But there's another front in this battle, and it is this. 
I think it is a problem if the president, commander in chief, we've elected does not have the experience and background to understand the threats facing this country coming in on Day 1. 
Because I promise you, the next time there is attack on an attack on this country, the first thing people are going to want to know is, why didn't we know about it and why didn't we stop it? 
My heart is to help you solve the problems of your state and the problems of our nation. 
We need fundamental police reform, clearly, clearly, when we talk about a criminal justice system. 
Well, I think -- I think that is very unfair to a few you mentioned, most particularly Jordan, which has put a lot on the line for the United States, has also taken in hundreds of thousands of refugees from Syria, and has been, therefore, subjected to threats and attacks by extremists themselves. 
He will go down as one of the great justices in the history of this republic. 
We should be deporting criminals, not hardworking immigrant families who do the very best they can and often are keeping economies going in many places in our country. 
He said, "All horse-thieves are Democrats, but not all Democrats are horse-thieves.
I have supported from day one and instant background check to make certain that people who should have guns do not have guns. 
And when you go in and you remove one of those dictators, unless you have an appropriate plan for replacing them, you're going to have chaos. 
Of course, our friends in the Hispanic community, our friends in the African-American community, the promise of America is that our system, when we follow the right formula, is going to give opportunity for everyone. 
Well, existing law provides that those who are deported cannot come back here legally. 
If they don't comply with that, you're encouraging chaos in our system. 
Florida went down the tubes right after he got out of office. 
In New Jersey, we have medical marijuana laws, which I supported and implemented. 
Now, the wall is $10 billion to $12 billion, if I do it. 
We're spending over $600 billion a year on the military and yet, significantly less than 10 percent of that money is used to be fighting international terrorism. 
But you would index it -- you would index it to the median wage. 
But at any rate, you have to replace it with something that makes sense. 
This is a group of people that burns people in cages, that is conducting genocide against Christians and Yazidis and others in the region. 
I was down there, and I've never seen anything like it. 
Because I think this notion I think this is an important point. 
We had our closest allies in Europe burning up the phone lines begging us to help them try to prevent what they saw as a mass genocide, in their words. 
You have to get people in, grab them, hug them, kiss them, and get the deal done. 
You know, the American president has to both keep our families safe and make the economy grow in a way that helps everyone, not just those at the top. 
One of the things my grandfather instilled in me, was that I was really blessed because I was a citizen of the greatest country in the history of our mankind. 
When I was governor, we had eight hurricanes and four tropical storms in 16 months. 
It is eviscerating small businesses and small banks. 
So, you can rewrite history, I guess, Ted, but the simple fact is that you supported him because he had all the criteria that you would have thought would have made a great justice. 
In the last 10 polls on RealClearPolitics, I either tied or beat Hillary. 
Right now under President Obama, we've created this this standard that is so high that it's impossible to be successful in fighting ISIS. We need to engage with the Arab world to make this happen. 
The 14th Amendment, it reads properly, you can go and it's probably going to be have to be check go through a process of court, probably ends up at the Supreme Court, but there are a lot of great legal scholars that say that is not correct. 
Middle class may notice it when they get to the cash register. 
My mission as president will be to raise incomes for hard-working middle-class families and to make sure that we get back to the basic bargain I was raised with: If you work hard and you do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead. 
But I want to tell you, there's a lot of young people watching tonight. 
We've got to unite our country again, because we're stronger when we are united and we are weaker when we are divided. 
But I like to be unpredictable so that people don't know exactly... 
And I think Ted Kennedy had a very clear idea about what needed to be done. 
And yet the mainstream media is going around saying it was the greatest week in Hillary Clinton's campaign. 
Have a no fly zone in Syria and create safe zones to deal with the refugees. 
ISIS has lost I think 40 percent of the territory that it held in the last year. 
What I believe and why I have advocated that the no-fly zone which of course would be in a coalition be put on the table is because I'm trying to figure out what leverage we have to get Russia to the table. 
So if you have a run on the bank, the Fed can serve as a lender of last resort, but it's not a bailout. 
And I'm the only one on this stage that has that record. 
Do senators have the right to disagree with the president? 
And, the truth is the Obama-Clinton economy has done enormous damage to the hispanic community. 
And the Mexican government is much smarter, much sharper, much more cunning. 
The scientists are telling us that we need to move extremely boldly. 
John Roberts has made some really good decisions, for sure, but he did not have a proven, extensive record that would have made the clarity the important thing, and that's what we need to do. 
We'll hire 20,000 new border agents instead of 20,000 new IRS agents. 
And he didn't sound like what they said Republicans were. 
No, I've never there has been, for example, today, according to the changes Harry Reid made, appellate judges can now be appointed by a simple majority, but not Supreme Court justices. 
You know, Mark Levin wrote a column last week that says that the attack ads his Super PAC is running that are saying the same thing, that they are knowingly false and they are, in fact, Alinsky-like attacks like Barack Obama. 
What is Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton done to this country? 
I believe that everybody in this country who has a mental crisis has got to get mental health counseling immediately. 
For many months, the political class, pundits, the media, have tried to ignore or bury me. 
If the circumstances warrant it, I will certainly use it. 
And I'll tell you why: because I'm the only person on this stage who's actually filed applications under the Patriot Act, who has gone before the federal -- the Foreign Intelligence Service court, who has prosecuted and investigated and jailed terrorists in this country after September 11th. 
We are not going to make America a harder place to create jobs in order to pursue policies that will do absolutely nothing, nothing to change our climate, to change our weather, because America is a lot of things, the greatest country in the world, absolutely. 
Begin to rely on us." What he is doing is he is trying to replace us as the single most important power broker in the Middle East, and this president is allowing it. 
But number two in the second half of it that is critical. 
No, in fact what I have said is the only thing the FBI made this very clear 48 hours ago the only thing they are asking of Apple is that Apple allow them to use their own systems in the FBI to try to guess the password of the San Bernardino killer. 
You needed them, or we just might as well close the doors, because you couldn't get help in those hot, hot sections of Florida. 
And you know what, I want a 50-state strategy so the Democratic Party is not just the party of 25 states. 
Well, we have 80 years of precedent of not confirming Supreme Court justices in an election year. 
There is no reason why you can't stand for principles, go and fight for them and be able also, to have to get things done in government. 
And I can do it without raising the debt, without raising taxes on the middle class and making it reasonably manageable within our budget so that we can be fiscally responsible at the same time. 
Well, I think it's pretty clear that they know that I will. 
First of, Jake, I don't yield to anybody on how to enforce the law. 
They've contacted the trafficking networks in the Western Hemisphere to get people in through the southern border. 
I would take some of the federal resources, combine it with the freed-up Medicaid program, which I would send back to the states, and cover the people who are currently the working poor because we don't want to have tens of millions of Americans losing their health insurance. 
And,it's really weak to call John McCain a loser because he was a...
And today with millions of people watching this broadcast that are struggling paycheck to paycheck that do not know how they're going to pay their bills at the end of this month, I'm not in favor of anything that is going to make it harder for them to raise their family. 
Look we have a lawlook, you know, II appreciate the senator's advocacy. 
And for the life of me, I have no understanding why the president thinks that everything is going well. 
Can I can I be really can I be really clear on this, because I am the father of two daughters. 
Because we can't just save the American Dream, we can expand it to reach more people, and change more lives than ever before. 
We can't have a weapon system take 22 and a half years. 
Just like Martin, I met with a group of Muslim-Americans this past week to hear from them about what they're doing to try to stop radicalization. 
Yeah, you can, because African-Americans and Latinos not only face the general economic crises of low wages, and high unemployment, and poor educational opportunities, but they face other problems, as well. 
A Wall Street executive destroys the economy, $5 billion settlement with the government, no criminal record. 
The government has lied to you and they have stolen from you. 
When you talk about regime change, Wolf, it means regime change. 
And the last point I would make on South Korea, now this is important, because we're asking to be commander-in-chief. 
I wish we could say yes, let's go destroy ISIS and let's let Assad continue to destroy Syria, which creates more terrorists, more extremists by the minute. 
A movement to do things like provide economic growth. 
Don't prosecute these people after the crime is committed. 
Part of the problem that we have currently in the Middle East is that Assad has hung on to power with the very strong support of Russia and Iran and with the proxy of Hezbollah being there basically fighting his battles. 
We're going to cut Medicare and Medicaid, federal aid to education to help you, because the government is so terrible. 
Donald is right that China is running over President Obama like he is a child, President Obama is not protecting American workers and we are getting hammered. 
" Our response, which I think was smart power at its best, is that the United States will not lead this. 
I know you're trying to build up your energy, Jeb, but it's not working very well. 
That is one of the greatest accomplishments of President Obama, of the Democratic Party, and of our country. 
Before we came out here tonight, I am told that the Saudis have organized 34 countries who want to join in the battle against terrorism. 
You know, if we don't get the military right nothing else matters. 
Well, I've been speaking English here tonight, and I'll keep speaking English. 
I have formed a collaborative between police and community leaders because people have to respect law enforcement. 
Kerry is moving and if you saw the people, because they have a video of the announcement that Carrier is moving to Mexico, O.K.? 
And it's probably not going to happen until we have real campaign finance reform and get rid of all these superpacs, and the power of the insurance companies and the drug companies. 
It would also fly to China, not just to meet with our enemies, not just to meet with those adversaries of ours that are there, but also to meet with those that aspire to freedom and liberty within China. 
I'm running for president because there is no way we can elect Hillary Clinton to continue the policies of Barack Obama. 
The only reason why you're doing it now is because we're running for the same position, and someone has convinced you that attacking me is going to help you. 
Every time he's got a chance, going all the way back to remember that Great Beer Summit he had after he messed up that time. 
But we also have to worry about some of the other players AIG, a big insurance company; Lehman Brothers, an investment bank. 
Well, John, first of all, if I were president, we wouldn't have the divisions in the country we have today. 
I believe that the great majority of people coming here illegally have no other option. 
Illegal immigration is costing us more than $200 billion dollars a year just to maintain what we have. 
Well, I'll tell you something: you can take everything from the top 1 percent, and you apply it to our fiscal gap, and you won't even make a dent in it. 
And if we do that, we can create a force that will take out ISIS both in Iraq and in Syria, which will take a lot longer time now...because of what President Obama's done by pulling back. 
I think they made the Second Amendment the second amendment because they thought it was just that important. 
Yeah, David, I would just like you to listen, again, everybody. 
My program would move the 104 programs of the federal Department of Education into four block grants, and send them back to the states because income inequality is driven by a lack of skills when kids don't get what they need to be able to compete and win in this country. 
And then for the 11.5 million that are here, if they have not committed a crime since they've been here, I believe they ought to pay some back taxes, pay a fine, never get on the path to citizenship, but get legalization. 
And he became a conservative, even though he got his news in Spanish. 
Donald, if you...-- this campaign, I hope you will give to me. 
So they soybean sales from Iowa, entire soybean production goes the equivalent of it goes to China. 
And that is important, because now we have a U.N. Security Council that will enable us to do that. 
There were four dissenters, and they said that they believe the Second Amendment protects no individual right to keep and bear arms whatsoever, which means, if their view prevailed and the next president's going to get one, two, three, maybe four Supreme Court justices, the court will rule that not a single person in this room has any right under the Second Amendment and the government could confiscate your guns. 
You get, like, three days where you have to show up? 
And by the same token, you have to be able to look at the big picture and understand that it's actually merciful if you go ahead and finish the job, rather than death by 1,000 pricks. 
So you can say whatever you want, but they have millions of women going through Planned Parenthood that are helped greatly. 
And that means all this automation that's replacing jobs and people right now is only going to be accelerated. 
And I really don't think these kinds of attacks by insinuation are worthy of you. 
And, the insurance companies aren't going to say that, they want to keep it. 
I have a strategy to combat and defeat ISIS without getting us involved in another ground war, and I have plans to raise incomes and deal with a lot of the problems that keep families up at night. 
..We should've given big chunks to the people that lost their arms, their legs, and their families, and their sons, and daughters, because right now, you know who has a lot of that oil? 
And let me, by the way, take this moment to congratulate Hillary Clinton, who I thought not only did an outstanding job as our first lady, but redefined what that role could be. 
Telling my Dad's story of coming to America with $100 dollars in his underwear, not speaking English, washing dishes, having hopes and dreams for the American dream. 
And you're going to have abuse and you're going to have problems, and you've got to solve the problems and you have to weed out the problems. 
The fact of the matter is, you know, what we should vet all candidates. 
You look at what's happening with Social Security, you look look at what's happening with every agency waste, fraud and abuse. 
She found a store front, she wanted to have her own business. 
We own a home four blocks away from the place that I grew up in. 
So I do want people to know that, and I think it's important for everybody to understand I have a record, I have stood firm and I will be the person who prevents them from ever wrecking the economy again. 
So we have a lot of work to do to get jobs going again, get incomes rising again. 
Look, the simple fact is, if you think this is tough you're not being treated fairly...imagine what it's going to be like dealing with Putin or dealing with President Xi. 
They say that politics is too complex, and too sleazy. 
Number one, too many innocent people, including minorities, African Americans, have been executed when they were not guilty. 
Secretary Clinton is absolutely right, there are people, Koch brothers among others, who have a group called Concerned Veterans of America, funded by the Koch brothers. 
There is just too much unpredictable threat and danger in the world today, you know, to try to just say wait, I'll get to that when I can. 
And offensively, we need to have capabilities second to none. 
It's not even discussed in the almost 6,000-page agreement. 
I know we can do this because we're still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth.
Reinstating Glass- Steagall is a part of what very well could help, but it is nowhere near enough. 
ISIS is a group that wants to trigger an apocalyptic showdown in the city of Dabiq not the city of Dubuque; I mis-said mis-said that wrong once time the city of Dabiq in Syria. 
But they will not be paying, Martha, any private insurance. 
Coming here legally needs to be a lot easier than coming here illegally. 
I've heard about tax schemes that don't add up, that put our kids in in a deeper hole than they are today. 
And frankly, it just came out, and in Iowa now, as you know, Ted, in the last three polls, I'm beating you. 
And then, we've got to recognize our first line of defense against lone wolf attacks is among Muslim Americans. 
And when it comes to the issues that are really on the front lines as to whether we're going to have equal pay, paid family leave, some opportunity for, you know, women to go as far as their hard work and talent take them, I think that we still have some barriers to knock down, which is why that's at the core of my campaign. 
See when you're a senator, what you get to do is just talk and talk and talk. 
It's a case where people want to try and get it's a case that is nonsense. 
Because I think we have to get to comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship. 
We have to eliminate the sequester, rebuild our military in a way that makes it clear that we're back in the game. 
And I would note, missing from Donald's answer was anything he has done in his nearly 70 years of living defending Israel. 
But we're living in a society today where despair kind of grows in isolation. 
And, frankly, I could care less about the insults that Donald Trump gives to me. 
Well, I don't think Barack Obama is being sued by any Islamic groups, but he is being sued by the Little Sisters of the Poor. 
We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating. 
Serious times require strong leadership, that's what at stake right now. 
If I didn't bring it up, we wouldn't even be talking. 
We're going to take out the artificial boundaries, the artificial lines. 
I think we also have try to disrupt their supply chain of foreign fighters and foreign money and we do have to contest them in online space. 
In fact, neither of you came to campaign for Vincent Sheheen when he was running for governor. 
In fact, Ronald Reagan's treasury, when Ronald Reagan's treasury looked at the vat tax, you know what they found? 
We need to expand what the input into the Democratic party. 
It brought them to the negotiating table which resulted in this agreement. 
I led the effort, unfortunately unsuccessfully, against deregulation because I knew when you merge large insurance companies and investment banks and commercial banks it was not going to be good. 
In fact, it has been over 80 years since a lame duck president has appointed a Supreme Court justice. 
Don't vote for me if you want to keep the gridlock in Washington, D.C. 
And if you think about what Ronald Reagan inherited, it's not unlike what the next president is going to inherit. 
We're going to win, win win, he's winning in the polls...
So and it hurts the poor and the middle class much more than it does the rich. 
I would not let the people who put their money in there all go down. 
The lines around the states...and, it was almost done not now...
We're actually doing it in my state, the seventh-largest state in the country. 
I said it will end in my first day in office as president, and the people who have it now will not be able to renew it. 
I'm proud to have rebuild my state after Hurricane Sandy, and I'm incredibly proud to be on this stage tonight with these men asking for your vote. 
Three and a half years, they still can't make a deal. 
It is a partisan vehicle, as admitted by the House Republican majority leader, Mr. McCarthy, to drive down my poll numbers. 
There are people who borrowed $36,000...to go to Trump University, and they're suing now $36,000 to go to a university...that's a fake school. 
Who denies that real unemployment today, including those who have given up looking for work and are working part-time is close to 10 percent? 
A couple of years ago, I had the opportunity to go on a congressional delegation. 
Let me give you an example of how corrupt how corrupt this system is. 
Do we want to stay that route, or do we want to go and make something with Russia? 
They couldn't resolve the dispute and then he was told that he died. 
You don't learn anything about somebody's wealth with a tax return. 
I've done it once in Washington, with great jobs and lower taxes. 
That will create a true 50-state national marketplace which will drive down the cost of low-cost, catastrophic health insurance. 
But the fact of the matter is, people had homes before 1913 when we introduced the federal income tax, and later after that started deductions. 
And we need to be focused on defeating...defeating radical Islamic terrorists. 
You know, at this point I'm not going to speculate on that without the intelligence briefing that any Commander in Chief would have, knowing what exactly is there. 
No one is tearing this up, we're going to go forward. 
We actually have a case where we don't want to bomb the oil, because we don't want to hurt pollute the atmosphere. 
But I want to I want to follow up on something having to do with leadership, because, you know, today Senator Sanders said that President Obama failed the presidential leadership test. 
In a sense, in my view, the business model of Wall Street is fraud. 
And right now, neither one of those are acceptable because we've been gutting the military budget. 
That is not what gets us where we want to get as a nation. 
But without eminent domain, you don't have roads, highways, schools, bridges or anything. 
The president decided to leave more troops than he had originally planned in Afghanistan. 
We are spending hundreds of billions of dollars maintaining 5,000 nuclear weapons. 
One of the things that you need in leadership is the ability to understand that to get things done, you must figure out the way to get it done. 
Well, it would depend on what I got for it and I can tell you what we got in the first term, we got a new start treaty to reduce nuclear weapons between the United States and Russia. 
Also I believe, and I've fought for, to understand that there are thousands of people in this country today who are suicidal, who are homicidal, but can't get the healthcare that they need, the mental healthcare, because they don't have insurance or they're too poor. 
It's now half the size of what it was prior to Operation Desert Storm. 
We need an agenda that speaks to the needs of working families and low-income people. 
What made America into a great nation was the fact that we said, that guy just put in $1 billion, let's create an environment that's even more conducive to his success so that next year he can put in $2 billion. 
That's why I'm running for President. because leadership is not about me, it's about our country. 
Let me let me also say, Gary Gary, let me also say, Jeb is what Jeb is talking about with the big banks is to force them to reserve their capital, people who invest it and they hold their capital, so that if the bank goes down, the people who are invested in the bank are the ones that pay. 
I have no argument with having a strong leader, and to be aggressive where aggression is needed. 
We've got the consensus, what we're lacking is political leadership...and that's what you and others can start providing in the Senate. 
So I think the better approach, the best thing we can do to protect ourselves against China economically is to make our economy stronger, which means reversing course from all the damage Barack Obama is doing to this economy. 
We will utterly destroy ISIS. We will stop the terrorist attacks before they occur because we will not be prisoners to political correctness. 
And I'll tell you what, Donald, you you very kindly just a moment ago offered me the V.P. slot. 
All of these things are disappearing, and Bernie Sanders and people like Hillary Clinton blame it on the rich. 
Martha, we offered a lot more than they were willing to take. 
We're going to have a trade deficit of 505 billion dollars this year with China.
The one thing he did say about me, however, was my tone. 
It's something where the democrats and the republicans both agree, it's the only thing I can think of. 
I would be so different from what you have right now. 
You know, Marco said," he learned that the American people didn't trust the federal government." 
Justice Roberts was strongly recommended and pushed by Ted. 
You know, need to stop allowing political correctness to dictate our policies, because it's going to kill us if we don't. 
And now we have to accept 2 percent, the new normal for economic growth. 
It's a serious problem that needs to be addressed, and otherwise we're going to keep talking about this for the next 30 years, like we have for the last 30 years. 
I will know more about this and, as you said, that was very acceptable, and when you listen to that whole interview, it's a great interview, you said it, I didn't. 
Back in 2004, one of my predecessors to the Senate by the name of Bob Graham, a Democrat, ran for president missing over 30 percent of his votes. 
And I have looked at his proposed plans for health care for example, and it really does transfer every bit of our health care system including private health care, to the states to have the states run. 
And I wrote a book about this called Immigration Wars. 
That's a matter of principle, and I'll tell you...
And the effect of that is incredible economic growth. 
What I did, working in the Senate, where I crossed the aisle often, working even with the senator from South Carolina, Lindsey Graham, to get Tricare for national guardsmen and women. 
None of that stuff happens on the floor of the United States Senate. 
A vat is imposed as a sales tax when you buy a good. 
Gun people said, there were three candidates in the race, you vote for one of the others, but not Bernie Sanders. 
As it relates to Iran, it's not a strategy to tear up an agreement. 
And, so, the United States needs to lead across the board. 
But the ideal scenario is to train Americans to do the work so we don't have to rely on people from abroad. 
Well, there's not question that we should be able to look at past president whether they're married to somebody who's running for president or not in terms of their past behavior and what it means. 
It will have to end at some moment, and as I said, we will we will eliminate that executive order. 
Jim and I, under Jim's leadership, as he indicated, passed the most significant veterans education bill in recent history. 
I think it's time to put a former federal prosecutor on the same stage as Hillary Clinton. 
The Iranians getting more of a presence in Syria, linking with Hezbollah, their proxy in Lebanon, would threaten Israel and would make it more difficult for us to move on a path to have a transition that at some point would deal with Assad's future. 
As it would orbit around the Earth, and as it got over the United States they would detonate that nuclear weapon and set of what's called an EMP, and electromagnetic pulse which could take down the entire electrical grid on the Eastern seaboard, potentially killing millions. 
All of us have denounced Trump's attempts to divide this country: the anti-Latino rhetoric, the racist rhetoric, he anti-Muslim rhetoric. 
On top of that, there is a business flat tax of 16 percent. 
Larry Kudlow is an example, who I have a lot of respect for, who loves my tax plan. 
I don't want companies shutting down in America, throwing people out on the street, moving to China, and bringing their products back into this country. 
Let me say this, Jake, is that while that may have been a fine idea that Dr. Carson had, these people were out to kill us. 
I totally agree that we need to give veterans more choices. 
For them not to be would be terrorist malpractice. 
If you look at the eight members of the Gang of Eight, Donald gave over $50,000 to three Democrats and two Republicans. 
Not only a disgrace, it's a disgrace and an embarrassment. 
This president and Hillary Clinton, who can't even say she's for the XL pipeline even after she's left? 
We're not going to lose them anymore because we're going to have a tax structure that is going to keep them in our country. 
And as president, I will lead this country, as I have before in Washington and in Ohio, and will return both on domestic and international affairs. 
I voted against the first Gulf War, which set the stage, I believe, for the second Iraq war. 
You're talking about a border that would be about four times longer. 
Secondly, as it relates to Iran, we need to confront their ambitions across the board. 
I think it is a very important question because the people who have been hurt the most in the Obama economy had been the most vulnerable. 
The next president of the United States is gonna have to get the United States back in the game, and if a preemptive strike is necessary to keep us safe, then we should do it. 
What we need look, the insurance companies take care of the politicians. 
The fact of the matter is, a leader must fight for what they believe in. 
In fact, I think New Hampshire, in state tuition for public colleges and universities, is among the highest if not the highest in the country. 
Well, you know, I'm reminded of what FDR's grandfather said. 
You wouldn't have massive excuse me, Josh you wouldn't have massive factories without eminent domain. 
Well, first of all, we need to destroy ISIS in the caliphate. 
Well, I'm sorry that whoever tweeted that had that impression because I worked closely with New Yorkers after 9/11 for my entire first term to rebuild. 
I've tried to be as specific to answer questions so that my proposals can be vetted, because I feel like we have to level with people for the very reason, Gwen, that you are mentioning. 
Well, I think Bush did a hell of a bad as far as that's concerned. 
But I would make very clear I would not talk to Vladimir Putin. 
Well, look, I've got to just jump in here because, honestly, Senator Sanders is the only person who I think would characterize me, a woman running to be the first woman president, as exemplifying the establishment. 
And we got to fight like crazy so people can think the American dream still exists, because it does, with rising wages, with full employment and with everybody in America and I mean everybody in America having an opportunity to realize the American dream of having a better life than their mother and their father. 
After the election, he asked me to become Secretary of State. 
That is a dramatic tax decrease for hard-working people who run their own businesses. 
This is a grassroots campaign and, you know, when I ran for senate in Texas, I told the people of Texas that I'm not going there to go along to get along. 
I want us to defend and build on the Affordable Care Act and improve it. 
They put in a double fence with a road so that there was quick access by the enforcement people. 
We need a president who understands the first obligation of the commander-in-chief is to keep America safe. 
And sending that signal makes it impossible for us to be serious about taking out ISIS and restoring democracy in Syria. 
And we can have a guest worker program, where people can come in and out in an orderly way. 
Well, first of all, Hugh, if you're looking at Republican advisers, you have to go to the last two administrations. 
We shrunk the state government workforce, we created a climate that led the nation in job growth seven out of eight years. 
But I do believe we can do that without violating the constitutional and privacy rights of the American people. 
This election has to be about reversing all of that damage. 
Well, first of all, let's understand why we are even having this and why Donald tapped in to some of that anger that's out there about this whole issue. 
We are going to be a country that says that "life begins at conception and life is worthy of the protection of our laws.
And fourthly, we have got to make our police departments look like the communities they serve in their diversity. 
It wasn't that the President Bushes wanted to appoint a liberal to the court, it's that it was the easier choice. 
We need to have a regulatory budget in America that limits the amount of regulations on our economy. 
We didn't win that war just from the air, we won that war by assembling a group of Arab leaders who stood in the Rose Garden and stood with America. 
Let's put the gun makers and sellers on notice that they're not going to get away with it. 
And for seven years, I spent my life protecting our country against another one of those attacks. 
And here's the problem with what's going on around the world. 
Everybody said, "Oh, the temperament," because I talked about illegal immigration. 
Every morning when a United States senator wakes up, they think about what kind of speech can I give or what kind of bill can I drop? 
Well, we have treated the drug-addicted in our prisons and we released them in to the community, and our recidivism rate is less than 20 percent. 
I've got the scars to show from the effort back in the early '90s. 
All of those things are important, and all those things would happen in a Christie administration. 
If you look at the countries that have imposed socialized medicine, that have put the government in charge of providing medicine, what inevitably happens is rationing. 
Please do not tell me that in this country, if and here's the if we have the courage to take on the drug companies, and have the courage to take on the insurance companies, and the medical equipment suppliers, if we do that, yes, we can guarantee health care to all people in a much more cost effective way. 
And this is the reason why they no longer trust this president and are willing to work alongside them. 
I hope that our Senate is going to be able Mitch, and the entire group, is going to be able to do something about it. 
We had a balanced budget four years in a row, had to take on every interest group in Washington every single one of them and we paid down a half a trillion of the national debt. 
I don't want to look my daughters in the eyes and say, "We lost their liberties." Who do you know will defend the Constitution and Bill of Rights? 
The question for South Carolinians and Americans is who do you want to have sitting behind the big desk in the Oval Office? 
Well, he will be there with that thinking for another 50 years. 
And they got a killer in San Bernardino in posing as a fiance. 
A lot of times, you'll have you'll have and it didn't work very well. 
No. 1 is we will arm the folks in Ukraine who are fighting for their freedom. 
The United States has to lead in a much more aggressive way than we're doing right now. 
We got a Republican House, we've got a Republican Senate, and we don't have leaders who honor their commitments. 
Let me just say, if you're talking about an $18 trillion economy, you're talking about a 15 percent tax on your gross domestic product. 
You just see the recent deal announced today or yesterday, more spending, more tax increasing, more regulation. 
When I asked General Dempsey, the chairman of the joint chiefs, what would be required militarily to destroy ISIS, he said there is no military solution. 
Under my tax plan right now, we're the highest taxed country in the world. 
And if I find anybody else involved in this, they will also be fired. 
That includes fixing their pipes, it includes guaranteeing whatever healthcare and educational embellishments they may need going forward, and I think the federal government has way where it can bill the state of Michigan. 
Who do you know will stop amnesty and secure the borders? 
And I have stood up and I have represented my constituents to the best of my abilities, and I'm very proud of that. 
A day or two days afterwards, North Korea took a held an American student hostage. 
I wouldn't have nominated John Roberts, and indeed, Governor Bush pointed out why. 
So I think it's time to end the very artful smear that you and your campaign have been carrying out...in recent weeks, and let's talk 
Fifty-one percent of high school African-American graduates are unemployed or underemployed. 
I worry greatly that the rhetoric coming from the Republicans, particularly Donald Trump, is sending a message to Muslims here in the United States and literally around the world that there is a "clash of civilizations," that there is some kind of Western plot or even "war against Islam," which then I believe fans the flames of radicalization. 
And if we nominate someone who agreed with John Kerry, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton on foreign policy, we're not in a strong position to win the general election. 
You know, frankly, I did it in Washington, in Ohio, and I will do it again in Washington, if I'm president, to get this country moving again. 
Their biggest problem is heroin, and it's such a shame to see it. 
I think if you do not understand that our Judeo-Christian values are one of the reasons why America is such a special country, you don't understand our history. 
People with a high school education or less are not even living as long as their parents lived. 
The small banks, like Governor Bush was saying, they can't deal with all these regulations. 
And I say, without any joy in my heart, that much of what I thought would happen about the destabilization, in fact, did happen. 
You're gonna have to do it and prove to people that it's working. 
I have a D-minus voting record from the NRA. I was in 1988, there were three candidates running for congress in the state of Vermont, I stood up to the gun lobby and came out and maintained the position that in this country we should not be selling military style assault weapons. 
We cannot continue to be weak in the face of the North Koreans, or, frankly, in the entire rest of the world. 
He's a good enough lawyer that he knows in these Obamacare cases he changed the statute, he changed the law in order to force that failed law on millions of Americans for a political outcome. 
So when they be found against that country that's selling products in here lower than the cost of what it takes to produce them, then what do we tell the worker? 
Oh, well, listen, I think being in Iraq, look, we thought there were weapons of mass destruction. 
I think that sets us apart from a lot of what's happening right now on the Republican side. 
It seems to me that given our history as a nation that has been a beacon of hope for the oppressed, for the downtrodden, that I very strongly disagree with those Republican candidates who say, you know what, we've got to turn our backs on women and children who left their home with nothing, nothing at all. 
My plan would sweep all of them into a regulatory framework so we can try to get ahead of what the next problems might be. 
There is a radical jihadist group that is manipulating our immigration system. 
We have work to do, and we now know a lot more than we ever did before. 
We have 2.5 trillion that I think is actually five trillion because the government has no idea when they say 2.5, they have no idea what they're doing or saying, as they've proven very well. 
In all due respect In all due respect, Secretary Clinton, a lot of the progressive groups, the online groups have really asked you a simple question. 
And he says, "well, it's the only time I ever jumped out of a plane." 
is I wanted to get our brilliant people from Silicon Valley and other places and figure out a way that ISIS cannot do what they're doing. 
In other words, people could buy in to Medicare, and even when the Democrats were in charge of the Congress, we couldn't get the votes for that. 
I still remember my father and me driving up to get Myriam out of that crack house to try to convince her she needed to be a mom to to my nephew Joey. 
You get rid of the lines, it brings in competition. 
That led to the chaos which allowed ISIS to come in and take advantage of that situation and grow more powerful. 
So so let me ask you this, because you're really getting beaten badly. 
We go the UAW on board because of changes we made. 
But they just took a big plant from Nabisco into Mexico. 
We do have too much division, too much mean- spiritedness. 
I am convinced because I see how he works with his attorney general, not to defend the Second Amendment, but to figure out ways to undermine it. 
I choose him as my vice presidential candidate, and the Democrats sue because we can't take him along for the ride. 
I happen to respect the secretary very much, I hope it's mutual. 
I want to go back for a second thought on this issue of income inequality. 
We have concealed-weapon permit holders, and in fact, there's 1,200,000 of them. 
You know, this is another issue on which Donald and I have sharp disagreements. 
You've had nothing but problems with your credit cards, et cetera. 
But what Donald Trump did was use eminent domain to try to take the property of an elderly woman on the strip in Atlantic City. 
And George Bush by the way, George Bush had the chance, also, and he didn't listen to the advice of his C.I.A. I don't want to go. 
But, here's the news to the American people, he's complaining about the lying and stealing. 
But that judge has been a disaster in terms of everything we stand for because there is no way no way that he should have approved Obamacare. 
What Washington does the people who are doing well in the Obama economy are those with power and influence in the Obama government. 
As I said before, we are a land of immigrants, but we have to be intelligent about the way that we form our immigration policies, and that's one of the reasons that I have called on us to declare war on the Islamic State because we need to reorient our immigration policies and our visa policies for people who are coming into this country because there are many people out there who want to destroy us. 
We're seeing it in my state and we'll see it in this country. 
Number one...Number one, there are currently two hedge fund billionaires running ads against me here in New Hampshire. 
" I want to be a president who takes care of the big problems and the problems that are affecting the people of our country everyday.
But I will tell you this, Atlantic City, you're using that, hundreds of companies that I have opened have thrived. 
Now, the big companies that have connections with Washington, they can affect policies to help them, but the small companies like the one Tania is talking about, they're the ones that are struggling. 
We've talked a lot tonight about what we're againstwe're against income inequality. 
The insurance companies are not in favor of me, they hate that. 
In fact, the time line indicates that initial tweet from CNN was followed by another one within one minute that clarified that I was not dropping out. 
Rather, he was, quote, "Taking a break from campaigning.
But unless you believe the United States should not send diplomats to any place that is dangerous, which I do not, then when we send them forth, there is always the potential for danger and risk. 
There are a million people a year who legally immigrate to the United States, and people feel like we're being taken advantage of. 
I mean, look, I care deeply about this because just like you I have met so many people who had their life savings wiped out, who lost their homes, who are barely back with their heads above water. 
The question was, would you meet with an adversary without conditions? 
But if we're going to get into labels, I don't think it was particularly progressive to vote against the Brady Bill five times. 
You know, I never had an audit until I spoke at the National Prayer Breakfast, and then all of a sudden, they came in, they said we just want to look at your real estate dealings. 
If we did that, we would shrink government's power in Washington, D.C. and we would have a much more effective government, where people would begin to trust our government again, because now, no one believes it works. 
I've vetoed more tax increases than any governor in American history, according to Americans for Tax Reform. 
But the Iranian leader, their supreme leader is a radical Shia cleric who has an apocalyptic vision of the future. 
I am certainly, absolutely, willing to look at that bill again and make sure there's a stronger bill. 
That's not the way the game is supposed to be played. 
I want to thank the people of Iowa for being so welcoming to me. 
We need the best possible intelligence not only from our own sources, but from sources overseas, that can be a real-time fusion effort to get information where it's needed. 
But now the intelligence agency is not able to quickly gather records and look at them to see who these terrorists are calling. 
We also understand that this is a group that's growing in its governance of territory. 
When I talked about Boeing and I talked about General Electric, what I was referring to is an outrage. 
This deal in Washington is an example of why Washington's broken. 
So I think that maybe we should get a little bit of an apology from Ted. 
Almost $500 billion; almost 80 million people participate, which is way too many, and that will get a lot better when we fix the economy, which I hope we get a chance to talk about. 
You know the nice thing about the mainstream media, they don't hide their views. 
Now let me tell you if you're a small business owner, Donald Trump's socialized medicine, putting the government in charge of your health care would kill more jobs than Obamacare, and if you're elderly, the results of socialized medicine in every country on earth where it's been implemented has been rationing, has been the government saying, no, you don't get that hip replacement, you don't get that knee replacement, the government is in charge of your health care. 
And I think what Senator Sanders is saying certainly makes sense in the terms of the inequality that we have. 
So listen, this is the difference between being a governor and a senator. 
See, because when something doesn't work in New Jersey, they look at me, say: "Why didn't it get done? 
At the same time, Mitt Romney was getting clobbered with 27 percent of the hispanic vote nationwide. 
But for me, this is about bringing our country together again. 
I have introduced legislation that would phase out the ethanol mandate over five years, but that is in the context of having no mandates whatsoever for anyone. 
It is beyond my comprehension how we can elect a president of the United States, somebody like Trump, who believes that climate change is a hoax invented by the Chinese. 
I am proud to say that Henry Kissinger is not my friend. 
When I'm president, we are rebuilding the U.S. military because the world is a safer and a better place when America is the strongest military in the world. 
And in the eight years before I become governor, taxes and fees were raised at the state level 115 times. 
Our antipoverty programs have become, in some instances, a way of life, a lifestyle. 
If they can't regulate themselves, then the NFL needs to look at just, you know, moving away from them a little bit. 
If I'm our nominee, how is Hillary Clinton gonna lecture me about living paycheck to paycheck? 
Unfortunately, Nouri al-Maliki, the prime minister, set about decimating it. 
He views himself not simply as the leader of Iran, but as the leader of all Muslims all Shia Muslims on the planet. 
One of the most horrific examples not a block from here where we had nine people murdered. 
So whether it's green cards or any other form of entry into America, when I'm president if we do not know who you are or why you are coming, you are not going to get into the United States of America. 
We have a plan, we will watch them, we will be vigilant. 
So the fact is, all I'm suggesting, we can't ship 11 million people out of this country. 
I have a very hardline position, we have a country or we don't have a country. 
I want to speak to all of those maddened by political correctness, where Hillary Clinton apologizes for saying all lives matter. 
To me, that was even worse than what he did to Ben. 
It was a time when President Reagan and George Bush decided that we needed to make the country work. 
They'll have to undergo a background check, pay a fine, start paying taxes. 
It is not a serious proposal to say that to the people that you're asking for their support that they can't even come to the country to even engage in a dialogue with us. 
And this debate stops with me in the discussions with the FBI director. 
Fifty percent more than the French, more than the Canadians. 
I don't recall the Sun in fact, the Sun-Sentinel endorsed him. 
I'm the only person on this stage who's done that and we will get it done as President of the United States. 
When he meets with the attorney general in the White House, it's not "how can we protect the Second Amendment rights of Americans.
I'm glad he has produced enormous enthusiasm, and, every Donald Trump voter or potential voter, I hope to earn your support. 
And others may have a different view and I respect it. 
That will change when militants across the globe see that when you join ISIS that you are giving up your life, you are signing your death warrant, and we need a president who is focused on defeating every single ISIS terrorist and protecting the homeland, which should be the first priority. 
And I'm delighted to be here in New Hampshire for this debate. 
Well, first of all, I know that the President has appealed the decision to the Supreme Court. 
And it gives people who believe in same-sex marriage the same rights as everybody else. 
And finally, our Medicaid is growing at one of the lowest rates in the country. 
That is exactly what I just said and what I just described. 
But I also think that if you're going to claim that you're the only one that lifted this into the campaign, that you acknowledge that, for example, you're only person on this stage that has ever been fined for hiring people to work on your projects illegally. 
That 2016 is not just a choice between Republican or Democrat. 
And that would I think give the American public a bit more of a sense of security about who is being processed and who might end up coming as refugees. 
And I want you to know that you've changed me, because I've listened to your stories and I've had your hugs and I've seen your tears, and I've seen you walk away and say, I now have hope. 
When we met in Copenhagen in 2009 and, literally, President Obama and I were hunting for the Chinese, going throughout this huge convention center, because we knew we had to get them to agree to something. 
We have made a lot of improvements in our domestic security since 9/11, and we have been able to foil and prevent attacks, yet we see the terrible attack in San Bernardino and know that we haven't done enough. 
We have one House member from Vermont, three candidates in the race. 
This election is about the future, about what kind of country this nation is gonna be in the 21st century. 
There are a lot of issues about wait times and services that have to be fixed because our veterans deserve nothing but the best. 
As far as being a Republican is concerned, I come from a place, New York City, which is virtually, I mean, it is almost exclusively Democrat. 
No, what I said, Chris, was that the law needs to be followed. 
Well, that's what's happening because of Dodd-Frank. 
He wants to reposition Russia, once again, as a geopolitical force. 
I think the big problem this country has is being politically correct. 
So I put all of this together, again, on my website and I've gotten such a good response. 
To begin with, Moammar Gadhafi and the revolt against Gadhafi was not started by the United States. 
She was not willing to change the path she was on. 
But they need to be absolutely clear about where they stand. 
For us to think that we're going to in there and fix that with a couple of little bombs and a few little decorations is relatively foolish. 
And one of them was that they shouldn't feel like they were going to get kicked out of the United States, otherwise they wouldn't pay attention to one more sentence from candidates. 
OK. My plan is not amnesty for a number of reasons. 
Wouldn't that be nice if the country could do that? 
Of course you've got to try to make peace with, and work with those who are your adversaries, but you don't just rush in, open the door, and say, "Here I am. 
If you take donations from Wall Street, you can't be independent. 
And we can no longer continue to sweep it under the rug. 
Yes, I happen to believe from the bottom of my heart that war should be the last resort that we have got to exercise diplomacy. 
And I recognize I recognize that Donald is dismayed that his poll numbers are falling in Iowa. 
And we need someone has a proven record of growing the economy, reforming the things that are broken. 
Well, he stated that in an interview that will be on our Web site, tedcruz.org. 
I far prefer that and the chances we have to be successful there than trying to start all over again, gridlocking our system, and trying to get from zero to 100 percent. 
Lots of people will say lots of different things about me in this campaign and others, but the one thing they've never said about me is that I'm misunderstood. 
And then we have to take care of the people that can't take care of themselves. 
Six largest financial institutions in America today have assets of roughly $10 trillion; equivalent to 58 percent of the GDP of the United States of America. 
But we do have special forces, we do have trainers, we do have the military personnel who are helping with the airstrikes that the United States is leading so that we can try to take out ISIS infrastructure, take out their leadership. 
And and here's the thing it was sort of funny 65 percent of the people don't like you I just got 36 percent of the vote, right? 
We can contribute to that and be economically sound. 
We have to offer a compelling alternative that is based on hope and optimism and grounded in serious policy, which I've laid out. 
The second thing, about the trade war I don't understand, because your ties and the clothes you make is made in Mexico and in China. 
This is a narrative that we can change, not we the Democrats, not we the Republicans, but we the people of America, because there is something special about this nation, and we must embrace it and be proud of it and never give it away for the sake of political correctness.
Very little of that budget less than 10 percent actually goes into fighting ISIS and international terrorism. 
All the things that would create sustained economic growth she's now doubling down against it. 
Six million more people living in poverty than the day that Barack Obama got elected president, and the left just wants more of the same. 
But, more importantly, to train a Sunni-led force in Syria to take out ISIS with our support ground and air. 
Now the Libyans are turning their attention to try to dislodge ISIS from its foothold and begin to try to move together to have a unified nation. 
Look, I watched Ted and I respected it, but he gets nowhere stand on the Senate floor for a day or two days, and talk and talk and talk. 
And for the sake of me, I can't figure out which one is which. 
I think the vacuum was created by the disastrous war in Iraq, which I vigorously opposed. 
But this system isI don't know if the secretary would agreeis currently very antiquated and no longer applies to modern day politics. 
Making fun of disabled people We're never going to win elections if we don't have a more broader unifying message. 
I think we should move forward as quickly as we can. 
It means more than 6 million people are stuck in poverty than the day that Barack Obama was inaugurated. 
And I'll go back to something that had been mentioned just a few minutes ago. 
When they didn't want when people wanted to raise taxes in my state at Democratic legislature and threatened to close down the government, I told them, fine. 
We were the only state to fund crisis pregnancy centers with state moneys. 
What I like even better than that is getting our smartest and getting our best to infiltrate their Internet, so that we know exactly where they're going, exactly where they're going to be. 
And we have to give the local authorities the ability to penetrate to disrupt. 
But I just have to tell you that it's best with some of these things not be said. 
Today in America, we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth. 
He even, in 2011, publicly sought someone to run in a primary against President Obama. 
A respected health economist said that these plans would cost a trillion dollars more a year. 
I can only say that we both share the goal of universal health care coverage. 
We've spent $5 trillion dollars all over the we have to rebuild our country. 
It is absolutely ludicrous to suggest that Russia could be a positive partner in this. 
Let me just tell you let me just tell you, the Trump University case is a civil case. 
I'd take Jackson off and I'd leave Alexander Hamilton right where he is as one of our Founding Fathers. 
And I also know that -- and I'm glad to see this -- Senator Sanders has really moved in face of the facts about what we're confronting in our country. 
But point being is that progressives did vote against that for that reason. 
I've traveled across our country over the last months listening and learning, and I've put forward specific plans about how we're going to create more good-paying jobs: by investing in infrastructure and clean energy, by making it possible once again to invest in science and research, and taking the opportunity posed by climate change to grow our economy. 
You don't have the endorsement of one Republican senator and you work with these people. 
The rate the rate the rate is gonna be much closer to 15 percent. 
We are living through a massive economic transformation. 
If you want someone to grab a beer with, I may not be that guy. 
There's a critical point that needs to be made here. 
We either allow them the continue to progress and appear to be the winners, or we use every resource available to us to destroy...them first. 
And as I have said many times, you know, sometimes in these campaigns, things get a little bit out of hand. 
You know, you look at things like our Ohio Class submarines, they're 25 years old. 
Gosh, if you guys ask one more mean question I may have to leave the stage. 
Mr. Trump" these poor guys although, I must tell you, Santorum, good guy. 
But I have to also to say I must keep the people of my state safe. 
The Clinton administration led the world in relaxing sanctions against North Korea. 
There is no question in my mind that if we summon our resources, both our leadership resources and all of the tools at our disposal, not just military force, which should be used as a last resort, but our diplomacy, our development aid, law enforcement, sharing of intelligence in a much more open and cooperative way -- that we can bring people together. 
Our big problem is not only people coming in, and in many cases the wrong people, it's the tremendous amount of drugs that are coming in. 
Thirdly, what I have a really problem, and as you mentioned - this is a problem, I recognize it as a problem. 
Neither of us came from wealthy families and we've worked really hard our entire lives. 
And, the other thing is, I do care about the poor people. 
So I'll have a team that will be that will be following the doctrine I set up, and it will be peace through strength. 
You know, that's what the PC culture is all about, and it's destroying this nation. 
So I will tell you I understand the game, I've been on the other side all of my life. 
China, they don't like to tell us but they have total control just about, of North Korea. 
Number two, this was the man that was a managing general partner at Lehman Brothers when it went down the tubes and almost took every one of us with it, including Ben and myself, because I was there and I watched what happened. 
But a poll just came out a Bloomberg poll where I am beating him so badly that it's, like, embarrassing even for me to say I'm beating him that badly. 
But radical terrorism cannot be solved by intellect. 
Chris, everybody you said you weren't going to go back. 
Whether it's a Mercedes-Benz, or whether it's an air conditioning unit. 
Everything I've done virtually has been a tremendous success. 
The troops on the ground should not be American troops. 
I worry very, very much about an isolated country. 
But there is a disconnect between the job openings and the veteran when the veteran comes back. 
I have authored Kate's law in the United States Senate and filed that legislation. 
My plan is to make it work, to tell Saudi Arabia that instead of going to war in Yemen, they, one of the wealthiest countries on Earth, are going to have to go to war against ISIS. To tell Qatar, that instead of spending $200 billion on the World Cup, maybe they should pay attention to ISIS, which is at their doorstep. 
Let the Chinese people start to digest how corrupt the Chinese government is; how they steal from the Chinese people; and how they're enriching oligarchs all throughout China. 
And I appreciate that, because I want them to have the same opportunity that I and my children and my wife and the people we love have had in this country. 
But as voters, we've been burned over and over again by people that give us a great campaign speech and they don't walk the walk. 
Well, I have also said, if anybody knows how to do that, that I would be willing to listen. 
Because, I've got to tell you the truth, even in New Jersey what you're doing is called rude. 
I'll tell you what else people are concerned about. 
Well, you know, Marco has continued these attacks, and he knows they're not true. 
We elected someone as president who wants to change America, who wants to make it more like the rest of the world. 
But the idea that you can't that you're just gonna grow your way out of this I have a plan to grow the economy at 4 percent, but you're gonna have to make adjustments for both Medicare and Social Security. 
I want one of these people here or the ones at 5:00, to be the next president of the United States. 
I called for a consumer protection financial bureau before it was created. 
They will not support you until you see it done first. 
You lost 2.2 you have right now, a huge budget deficit. 
Well, first, let's remember why we became part of a coalition to stop Gadhafi from committing massacres against his people. 
That is why I support a $12 national federal minimum wage. 
And there is a real danger, Dana, when people get distracted. 
I don't like what the Fed is doing, but I'll tell you what worries me more than anything else: turning the Fed over to the Congress of the United States...so they can print the money. 
Or you could ask me two questions, so I could get two minutes instead of one. 
And we've got to listen to other people's voices, respect them, but keep in mind, and I believe in terms of the things that I've read in my lifetime, the Lord'is not picking us. 
It is about what kind of country this is going to be in the 21st century, and if we elect someone like Barack Obama, a Hillary Clinton, a Bernie Sanders or anyone like that, our children are going to be the first Americans to inherit a diminishes country. 
That now includes the internet, because we have seen that ISIS is a very effective recruiter, propagandist and inciter and celebrator of violence. 
Where we back up our allies, where we don't send signals of weakness. 
I think he is really regretting the decline of his economy. 
Not only that, he proposed doubling the number of green cards. 
Not handicap it and say, well maybe since I can't win this one, I'll run. 
Well, we did have a plan, and I think it's fair to say that of all of the Arab leaders, Gaddafi probably had more blood on his hands of Americans than anybody else. 
Let me tell you something, I don't care if you are a millennial or whether you are in your 90s, no one is for that type of activity, unless you are the most radical type of extremist on this issue, like Senator Clinton and her party is on this issue. 
This is a failure of his leadership to get this done as an executive should be doing it. 
We are one justice away from a Supreme Court that will strike down every restriction on abortion adopted by the states. 
But I believe that a reading of the 14th Amendment allows you to have an interpretation where this is not legal and where it can't be done. 
So I have absolutely no concerns about it, but we've got to get to the bottom of what's really going on here, and I hope that will happen. 
We got to do a lot about the high cost of high higher education, but we've got to make sure we're training people for jobs that exist, that are good jobs that can pay. 
It belonged to the killer's employer who have agreed to allow him to try to do this. 
Some weeks ago, a woman named Sabina Loving testified at a hearing that I chaired in the Senate. 
I'm not running against Governor Bush, I'm not running against anyone on this stage. 
But we're always looking for ways about what more we can do to try to give people a chance to be successful. 
And, the left, of course, will say Carson doesn't believe in the Geneva Convention. 
Recognize that the caliphate is what gives them the legitimacy to go out on a jihadist mission, so we need to take that away from them. 
It is also the case that that Rubio-Schumer amnesty bill, one of the things it did is it expanded Barack Obama's power to let in Syrian refugees. 
I know from the work that I've done over so many years, lead, the toxic nature of lead can affect you brain development, your body development, your behavior. 
Marco stood today, standing on this stage Marco supports legalization and citizenship for 12 million illegals. 
I thank you for going to Flint to hold that town hall. 
How is she -- how is she gonna lecture me -- how is she gonna lecture me about student loans? 
The men and women on this stage, every one of us, is better prepared to keep this nation safe than is Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton. 
Well, Chuck...If I could, you know, in the very first debate I was asked am I a moderate or a progressive and I said I'm a progressive who likes to get things done. 
I spent ten years in the private sector, actually learning how business works. 
And this is why this president is so weak and why the secretary of State, who is embracing a third Barack Obama term, would be even weaker. 
Everybody ought to have a chance to be able to rise to their God-given purpose. 
Yes, the wealthiest people, the top 1.5 percent, will pay more in taxes. 
And if we did that, they wouldn't have the wealth they have right now. 
We need to make sure there are more men and women in uniform than people than civilians in our Defense Department. 
Parenting is the most important job any of us will ever have. 
Think about the mothers who will take those children tomorrow morning to the bus stop wondering whether their children will arrive back on that bus safe and sound. 
A committed speaker of the House asked me to go as a private citizen to make the case against the expansion. 
We had Central American miners that were placed in Ohio, and we never knew a thing about it. 
In Florida promising to...go in the fight against amnesty...
Not the fairness that we grew up believing that America was about. 
We can get back in the game to restore order and security for our own country. 
So you ask Mr. Trump to respond and say that he would, and he says that he would. 
It's not just enough about what we're against, as important as that is. 
I agree with President Obama who used executive orders to protect families because the Congress, the House was unable or refused to act. 
I was running Carly, Carly I've made over $10 billion. 
Now, we are a great nation and we've heard a lot of great ideas here tonight. 
And there are 48 million people involved 40 million, 65 and over, and 8 million other. 
If I'm elected president, we will win, and we will win, and we will win. 
I think that would be a great mistake, to once again plunge our country into a contentious debate about whether we should have and what kind of system we should have for healthcare. 
But I want to say a quick word about what Senator Sanders and then Governor O'Malley said. 
But just as importantly, and I agree with what John said. 
As far as Mark is concerned, as far as the visas are concerned, if we need people, they have it's fine. 
You may let it and you may be fine with it...I'm not fine with it. 
I like Donald, he is an amazing entertainer, but his policies for most of his life...
I say not in a braggadocious way, I've made billions and billions of dollars dealing with people all over the world, and I want to put whatever that talent is to work for this country so we have great trade deals, we make our country rich again, we make it great again. 
And right now, both Republicans and Democrats in Washington don't get it. 
Because for the last 24 hours, with those issues being so urgent to people as they tune in tonight, wondering how they're even be able to buy presents for their kids. 
And when the people of Iowa found that out, I went to No. 1 and you went down the tubes. 
So I don't I don't want to really get into describing who's a politician and who's not a politician, but I think the people have kind of made that decision for themselves already, and will continue to do so as time goes on. 
The men and women on this stage have more ideas, more experience, more common sense than every participant in the Democratic debate. 
These are children who are leaving countries and neighborhoods where their lives are at stake. 
Trillions of dollars have gone from the middle class and working families to the top one-tenth of one percent who have doubled the percentage of wealth they now own. 
First of all Let me go first, and then you can please recognize Rand after. 
We'll kill the terrorists, we'll repeal Obamacare, and we will defend the Constitution, every single word of it.
And the answer is: Because they know I will go right after them, that I will not let their agenda be America's agenda. 
Now, with Obamacare, I've not only sued the administration, I did not set up an exchange. 
Our identity is not based on race or ethnicity, it's based on a set of shared values. 
Because because Donald's mother was born in Scotland. 
I'm the only one in either party self-funding my campaign. 
You must have an agenda that you are ready to move on in the first 100 days. 
The business flat tax, they already impose their taxes on us, so there's no reciprocal tariffs that come against us. 
I believe in it but we have to be smart and we have to use smart people to negotiate. 
We have a society that stigmatizes those that hold cultural values that are traditional. 
Well, first of all, this is an issue that's been debated now for 30 years. 
So the bottom line is, I am not in favor of any policies that make America a harder place for people to live, or to work, or to raise their families. 
I think it'll make our country and our economy very dynamic. 
Yes, we have income inequality, we have other forms of inequality that we need to stand up against and absolutely diminish from our society. 
We have actually created a category of systemically important institutions, and these banks go around bragging about it. 
Good question, but I want to tell you, my great concern is that we are on the verge, perhaps, of picking someone who cannot do this job. 
And to me, what I've always said is that the president has set up an awful situation through his deal with Iran, because what his deal with Iran has done is empower them and enrich them. 
I am on the committee that helped write the Affordable Care Act. 
Wish we could, and allow, you know, the Taliban or anybody else to reclaim that country. 
Well, thank you, Megyn, I wasn't sure I was going to get to talk again. 
They're afraid for losing their pension, their job. 
Weakness is provocative, and this Iranian nuclear deal is nothing short of catastrophic. 
And you put me on that stage against her next September, she won't get within 10 miles of the White House. 
And then we have to figure out how we're going to make the tax system a fairer one. 
Nobody wants to watch three and a half, or three hours. 
Let me say because there's a lot of loose talk going on here we are already flying in Syria just as we are flying in Iraq. 
The problem is that today people are not successful working as hard as ever because the economy is not providing jobs that pay enough. 
This is the only home they know, and that is a dramatic change from last April when you said in Spanish, and I'm going to quote you which translates to DACA is going to have to end at some point, but it wouldn't be fair to cancel it immediately. 
And his explanation he said, "look, I'm from New York, that's what we believe in New York. 
The truth is, the rich do great with big government. 
But we need smart people making the deals, and we don't have smart people making the deals. 
I was in the Congress for 18 years, balanced the budget, cut taxes, got it done. 
Well, Marco has been floating this attack for a few weeks now, but the problem is, the business flat tax in my proposal is not a vat. 
And what I hear is people's concern that the economy we have is a rigged economy. 
It's a small portion of the kind of money that we lose and the deficits that we have with Mexico. 
You know, in a situation like that, of course Obama's not going to be able to do anything. 
The Republican Party is blessed to have 11 good candidates, 10 good candidates. 
And I think it's fair to say that whoever is in that position, Senator Sanders or anyone else who might have run, will face the most withering onslaught. 
I borrowed $1 million, I turned it into $10 billion...more than $10 billion. 
Well, first of all, I've seen polls where I'm beating Hillary Clinton pretty regularly. 
They're working as hard as they ever have, but they're living paycheck to paycheck because the economy has changed underneath their feet. 
While I'm as entertained as anyone by this personal back-and-forth about the history of Donald and Carly's career, for the 55-year-old construction worker out in that audience tonight who doesn't have a job, who can't fund his child's education, I've got to tell you the truth. 
There were parts of that bill which agree with parts -- I disagree. 
I'm very angry because our country is being run horribly and I will gladly accept the mantle of anger. 
We got permission to resupply our troops in Afghanistan by traveling across Russia. 
They do not understand anything but toughness and strength, and we need to engage the Chinese to deal with the North Koreans, but we also need to make sure that they understand there's a commander-in-chief who will not pay ransom for any hostage. 
I've had the experience of working with them as Governor of New Jersey as well. 
Well, I will gladly confess that I'm the only one on this stage with no political title. 
Anybody flies in the first time, maybe they can fly out. 
I have known Secretary Clinton for 25 years and respect her very much. 
Well, our prayers are with the people of France tonight, but that is not enough. 
My parents in this country were able to give me the chance to do all the things they never did. 
She admitted she had sent e-mails to her family saying, "Hey, this attack at Benghazi was caused by Al Qaida-like elements." 
But because their phone was encrypted, because the intelligence officials could not see who they were talking to, it was lost. 
And that's how you get a foreign policy where we cut deals with our enemies like Iran and we betray our allies like Israel and we gut our military and we go around the world like he has done on 10 separate occasions and apologized for America. 
Because when I look at what is going on with the United States of America, I see a lot of things that are not logical. 
See, and I don't have to say it, because they voted already. 
I watched what this man did to Dr. Ben Carson, who I respect, in Iowa, where he said that Ben Carson is out of the race he has left Iowa and he's out of the race. 
You know, we know that if you are learning, you're gonna change your position. 
No, you just can't negotiate with Mitch McConnell. 
And so the next president of the United States needs to be someone like me who will stand firmly on the side of Israel. 
And, by the way, I want to substantially lower student debt interest rates in this country as well. 
Very little is going to be done to transform our economy and to create the kind of middle class we need unless we end a corrupt campaign finance system which is undermining American democracy. 
Very, very unfair to the people that want to come into our country legally. 
To use the Justice Department, as we just saw, they have said they are going to sue Ferguson, that entered into a consent agreement, and then tried to back out. 
If our military experts say, we need boots on the ground, we should put boots on the ground and recognize that there will be boots on the ground and they'll be over here, and they'll be their boots if we don't get out of there now. 
I've seen so much of it a Soviet Union, the coming down of a wall, the issues that we saw around the world in Central America, the potential spread of communism, and 9/11 and Gulf War. 
So we have to be saying, how do we make them look like losers? 
Well, I would note, initially the fact that we're seeing the launch, and we're seeing the launch from a nuclear North Korea is the direct result of the failures of the first Clinton administration. 
We improved we improved we increased child support we increased child support with a broken system by 90 percent. 
I know people that are personally impacted by this. 
Do you think there's a reason why not one Republican has the guts to recognize that climate change is real, and that we need to transform our energy system? 
The net effect of that is and they had they had not one loan that went bad during the financial crisis. 
Who do you know will defend life, marriage and religious liberty? 
This is the difference between being a governor who actually has to be responsible for problems and not answering a question. 
They shouldn't automatically assume that because you believe that marriage is between one man and one woman that you are a homophobe. 
Here at home, we've got to do a better job coordinating between federal, state, and local law enforcement. 
That's the difference, and that's the kind of leader we need in the White House. 
And for the sake of our economy, they must -- the major banks must be broken up. 
You have to ban the people who are trying to hurt us. 
And if you talk about evolving, Ronald Reagan was a somewhat liberal Democrat. 
I would agree with Apple on that broad policy question. 
[laughter, applause, and cheering] I watched him repeat himself five times four weeks ago...
Well, I think conservatism is about three things and Donald touched on one of them, but it's about three things. 
And what happened tonight with with Justice Scalia tells you that we cannot afford to lose this election, and we cannot be tearing each other down. 
They go, if I get elected, first day they're gone. 
If you're looking for someone to go to Washington, to go along to get along, to get -- to agree with the career politicians in both parties who get in bed with the lobbyists and special interests, then I ain't your guy. 
Yes, does Wall Street and big financial interests, along with drug companies, insurance companies, big oil, all of it, have too much influence? 
Our higher education system is completely outdated. 
It is not the way we're going to strengthen our country. 
It's not about us, it's about the American people. 
They focus on nation building, they focus on toppling governments to promote democracy, and it ends up undermining our national security. 
We are our Medicaid programs are coming in below cost estimates, and our Medicaid program in the second year grew at 2.5 percent. 
Frankly, I would have said get out of Syria; get out if we didn't have the power of weaponry today. 
But I do believe it is a responsibility for a responsible society, and we are that. 
Caesar's excuse me Caesar's, the Rolls-Royce, as you know, is in bankruptcy. 
Very good people are making very bad decisions right now. 
That's why when I'm president we are going to rebuild our intelligence capabilities. 
I know what it's like to owe that money, and we've worked hard. 
They will never again support it, and that's wrong for our country, bad for our future. 
You are not for putting a firewall between this speculative, risky shadow banking behavior. 
It gives us the authority already to break up big banks that pose...O'MALLEY: And we have never used it. 
We give people the ability to shift money within their health empowerment account so that each family basically becomes its own insurance company without a middleman; that saves you a awful lot of money. 
It is a disaster for this country, and speaking of Israel, it's a disaster for Israel. 
So, when we talk about criminal justice reform, and ending the era of mass incarceration, we also have to talk about jobs, education, housing, and other ways of helping communities. 
What we need to do is lead an international coalition which includes very significantly the Muslim nations in that region who are going to have to fight and defend their way of life. 
Well, ladies and gentlemen, if Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders were to win this election, my 16-year-olds, I I worry about what their life is going to be like. 
I've laid out my ideas about what we can do to make college affordable; how we can help people pay off their student debts and save thousands of dollars, how we can create more good jobs because a lot of the young people that I talk with are pretty disappointed the economic prospects they feel their facing. 
We want to challenge rather than cutting and running. 
We just heard that most families haven't had a wage increase since 2001. 
But we have the lowest percentage of Americans working today of any year since 1977. 
People were shocked, the people in the back, the reporters, they were shocked when they went down. 
The -- the only one to operate on babies while they were still in mother's womb, the only one to take out half of a brain, although you would think, if you go to Washington, that someone had beat me to it. 
But we're going to bring this party together and we are going to defeat Hillary Clinton, because she is unqualified to be the president of the United States of America. 
The fact is, is that we should go to war when it is our direct interest. 
And I will go back to Washington and do it again for the American people. 
I'll give you an example, because I don't like the idea of using executive orders like our president. 
Jeb said...that they come into our country as an act of love. 
The fact is what we need is transparency with hospitals and with the providers. 
Well, the last USA Today poll had me beating Hillary Clinton by 11 points, more than anybody on this stage. 
And we'll save a trillion dollars over the next 10 years. 
That's the kind of coalition we need and that's the kind of coalition I will put together. 
People are struggling 63 percent of Americans can't make a $500 car payment. 
First of all, very few people listen to your radio show. 
And that's why we have FISA courts and things of that nature. 
And that next day my wife Mary Pat did what she did every day, she traveled through the World Trade Center and went to her office two blocks from the World Trade Center. 
We have a very cooperative government there, with Ashraf Ghani and his tophis top partner, Abdullah. 
It's it's a powerful part of our of our Bill of Rights. 
I would build consensus with Congress, and Congress would agree with me. 
I would encourage every American to watch the videos. 
And I am very, very proud to say that I am pro-life. 
I know a lot of Americans are angry about the economy. 
Twenty-nine million people have no health insurance today in America. 
The only thing they're being asked to do, and the FBI made this very clear about 48 hours ago, is allow us to disable the self- destruct mode that's in the Apple phone so that we can try to guess using our own systems what the password of this killer was. 
I was not only in opposition to NAFTAand this is an area where the secretary and I have disagreements. 
" How about talking about the substantive issues the people care about? 
A lot of what we're talking about here tonight as we take this position and that position, you know what? 
Are we going to take the Reagan approach, the hopeful optimistic approach, the approach that says that, you come to our country legally, you pursue your dreams with a vengeance, you create opportunities for all of us? 
Well, first of all, Rand Paul shouldn't even be on this stage. 
Hillary Clinton, Samantha Power and all these other people convinced the president to undermine Gadhafi. 
He pays on his personal rate, and he is paying higher than the big dry-cleaning chain down the street, because he's paying at his personal rate. 
Barack Obama became president, and he abandoned Iraq. 
And they wonder whether somebody is getting something to keeping them from getting it. 
I have spent a very long time my entire adult life looking for ways to even the odds to help people have a chance to get ahead, and, in particular, to find the ways for each child to live up to his or her God-given potential. 
And wherever it came from we need to start once again recognizing that there is such a thing as right and wrong. 
And, we have a government and leaders in government that are completely out of touch, and that's why I'm running for president. 
OK. You know, you judge a nation not by the number of millionaires and billionaires it has, but by how you treat, we treat, the most vulnerable and fragile people in our nation. 
But what does help us is stop tinkering around the edges and fix the actual problems that exist that are creating the problem in the first place. 
The issue of poverty is critical, because for me, poverty is the is is free enterprise not reaching people. 
When that issue was being debated, Ted Cruz, at a committee hearing, very passionately said, I want immigration reform to pass, I want people to be able to come out of the shadows. 
It goes on, we shouldn't even be talking about it, to be honest with you out in the public. 
Well first of all, I think it's important that when we're running for the highest office in the land that we recognize that we're living in dangerous times and we have to be serious about it, that our words have consequences. 
By the way, unlike our country where we're totally predictable and the enemy, whether it's ISIS or anybody else, they know exactly what we're doing because we have the wrong leadership. 
And when I'm president, we're not just going to have a president that gives a State of the Union and says America is the greatest country in the world. 
So, are we going to ban Muslims from India, from Indonesia, from countries that are strong allies that we need to build better relationships with? 
And if you go to my Web site,berniesanders.com, what you find is not only going to help lead the opposition to that war, but much of what I feared would happen when I spoke on the floor of the House, in fact, did happen in terms of the instability that occurred. 
Every effort over the last ten years to do those comprehensively has failed. 
Jobs are being created, but they're lower-income jobs than the jobs that were lost. 
It's why you prevent them from getting nuclear weapons in the first place because your hands are somewhat tied once they have nukes. 
And I'm going to do everything I can to address distressed communities, whether they are communities of color, whether they are white communities, whether they are in any part of our country. 
They continue to support Hezbollah and Hamas in Lebanon against Israel. 
Number one, we're going to keep ISIS out of America. 
What happened with Atlantic City is very, very disgraceful. 
Like rich kids, they deserve to get a free education. 
So guns have to be looked at as its own problem, but we also have to figure out how we're going to deal with the radicalization here in the United States. 
Today, we had robo-calls saying, "Donald Trump is not going to run in South Carolina," where I'm leading by a lot. 
There's no doubt that when Putin came back in and said he was going to be President, that did change the relationship. 
Within the first hundred days, we will have the plan to get this done. 
Let's deal with some of the comments that Secretary Clinton made. 
I can tell you, after spending seven years as a former federal prosecutor, right after 9/11, dealing with this issue. 
We will have to embed additional American special operators alongside them to help them with training, to help them conduct special missions, and to help improve the air strikes. 
And if you make $40,000 a year, a family of four, you don't pay any income tax at all. 
Get rid of Obamacare, we'll come up with new plans. 
We haven't come up with an exact number yet, but it will not be as high as the number under Dwight D. Eisenhower, which was 90 percent. 
And they've stolen from you because now they know they cannot pay these benefits and Social Security is going to be insolvent in seven to eight years. 
So yeah, we've created jobs, your argue (ph) brought that up early, and it was a good question. 
So he supports Pelosi, he supports Schumer, he supports Clinton 
We are nineteen trillion dollars our country's a mess and we can't let all these people come into our country and break our borders. 
Everybody voted for it wanting to see Libya move toward democracy, of course we all wanted to do that. 
The first thing we need to do is we need to even out the tax code for small businesses so that we lower their tax rate to 25 percent, just as we need to lower it for all businesses. 
Real leadership is what I would hopefully bring to America.
Now, I will say this, with all of that being said, I have said I will not do it at all, because if I say a word that's a little bit off color, a little bit, it ends up being a headline. 
Hugh, you said you're going to be fair to everybody, you didn't ask me about taxes. 
And that's the difference between somebody who knows how to do this and somebody who's never done it before. 
We have an economy today, an economy today that is not creating jobs that pay enough. 
You know, just two weeks ago was the 25th anniversary of the first Persian Gulf war. 
The scientific community is telling us that if we do not address the global crisis of climate change, transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to sustainable energy, the planet that we're going to be leaving our kids and our grandchildren may well not be habitable. 
Because seniors, if they are retired, are no longer earning an income from a job. 
But what happened is a political vacuum developed. 
When you stand up to Washington, when you honor the promise you made to the men and women who elected you and say enough with the corruption, enough with the cronyism, let's actually stand for the working men and women of this country, Washington doesn't like it. 
I will always tell the truth and do what I said I would do. 
I cautioned about a quick overthrow of Mubarak, and we now are back with basically an army dictatorship. 
I do agree with him that it's going to be a disaster, Obamacare, for the economy. 
Hey, Wolf, let me just say this because he mentioned this. 
And I laid out a plan that the Reagan Library before the tragedy of Paris, and before San Bernardino to do just that. 
The first thing we need to do to make America stronger is to strengthen our military, and I put out a really specific plan: no less than 500,000 active duty soldiers in the Army. 
And I laid out a comprehensive, conservative approach for immigration reform. 
And that's why we're in the trouble that we're in now. 
Leadership, leadership is not about attacking people and disparaging people. 
I'm here with my wife, Candy, of 40 years, and two of my sons, and their wives. 
I say this every night, every day, every afternoon, and it's so true we don't win anymore. 
You need a strong commander-in-chief who will look these folks in the eye and say, we will not put up with this and we will take whatever actions we need to take, not only to get our people home safely, but to swiftly and surely punish those who believe they can violate the law and violate American's sovereign rights to travel the world freely and safely. 
And a lot of the big conservatives that tell me how conservative they are I think I'm more than they are they tell me, oh well, they all want the Keystone Pipeline. 
I will not we're going to have private we are going to have health care, but I will not allow people to die on the sidewalks and the streets of our country if I'm president. 
I fully understand, James, one of that was really the first that we saw, really visually saw it was so horrible. 
But if you also apply that same 15 percent to several other things, including corporate taxes, and including the capital gains taxes, you make that amount up pretty quickly. 
And as Reagan demonstrated, if we cut taxes, we can bring back growth. 
But if you look at the deals we make, whether it's the nuclear deal with 24 hour periods -- and by the way, before you get to the 24 hours, you have to go through a system. 
Those costs are then added to the overall cost, which does increase the insurance premiums for people in the private system. 
There's plenty of problems that we all have to face together. 
And so here's the truth: this election is about the future, and the Democratic Party, and the political left has no ideas about the future. 
And that's what we need to be doing to the best of our ability in our country. 
Qatar happens to be the largest wealthiest country per capita in the world. 
The reality is that we have one of lowest voter turnouts of any major country on earth because so many people have given up on the political process. 
I've spent my entire life, since I started as a young lawyer for the Children's Defense Fund, trying to figure out how we can even the odds for so many people in America, this great country of ours, who are behind, who don't have a chance. 
I'm not talking about now, I'm talking about in the future they're building massive plants in China because China does not want Boeing building their planes here, they want them built in China, because China happens to be smart the way they do it, not the way we do it. 
We came in, we balanced an $11 billion deficit on a $29 billion budget by cutting over 800 programs in the state budget. 
But they're not going to do it until you first enforce the law. 
And I think it's because they've worked with me, they've seen what I do. 
I believe we should focus on middle-class families, working families, and poor kids who have the ambition and the talent to go to college and get ahead. 
I happen to believe that Putin is doing what he is doing because his economy is increasingly in shambles and he's trying to rally his people in support of him. 
His loss is tremendous, and obviously our hearts and prayers go out to his family. 
You know, somebody is loading guns and ammunition into a house, I think it's a good idea to call 911. 
Now, at the time, I was at the caucuses, I was getting ready to speak at the caucuses just like Ben was, just like everyone else was. 
And I spent the next seven years of my career fighting terrorism and putting terrorists in jail. 
And the final point that I would make is Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama's strategy is to lead from behind. 
Washington ethics basically says, if it's legal, you do what you need to do in order to win. 
We have an economy that last quarter, G.D.P. didn't grow. 
And I think that's a bad idea for the following reason. 
Instead of being dependent on super PACs, what we need is to be dependent on small, individual campaign contributors. 
It takes a mandatory e-verify system and a mandatory entry/exit tracking system to prevent overstays. 
And specifically said to Wall Street, that what they were doing in the mortgage market was bringing our country down. 
Donald, true or false, you've said the government should pay for everyone's health care. 
In the eastern part of Europe, make sure that Finland and the Baltics know that if the Russians move, we move. 
Look, I understand Marco wants to raise confusion, it is not accurate what he just said that I supported legalization. 
And until that happens there's not going to be consensus on this issue. 
And that means -- and that means radically changing the way we deal with mental health and addiction issues. 
It is extraordinary that of five people standing on this stage that two of us are the children of Cuban immigrants. 
America is great because we have run America from the bottom up, where we all live in the neighborhoods. 
Well, I have actually documented every way that I'm going to pay for what I'm doing because I think the American public deserves to know. 
And, yes...I do want to rebuild the American military. 
And I would do it in concert, again, with our Arab allies and with Europe, most particularly in this case. 
think there were half a dozen coin flipsa fairly chaotic type situation. 
We need to embed our forces our troops inside the Iraqi military. 
It was some of the most progressive members of the United States Congress who opposed it for that reason. 
Well, look, in 1986 Ronald Reagan basically said the people who were here, if they were law-abiding, could stay. 
I'll just say this, first off, New Jersey is the first state in the nation that now says if you are non-violent, non-dealing drug user, that you don't go to jail for your first offense. 
So I not only had the opportunity to go through the Cold War struggles in Central America, and even after 9/11 to be involved. 
Taking two existing technologies, and applying it through innovation has created lower carbon emissions, lower energy costs 40% of all the economic activity in the age of Obama has come from the energy sector, and Hillary Clinton wants to suppress that. 
In my view, Secretary Clinton, you do not Congress does not regulate Wall Street. 
So that parents who are working get to keep more of their own money, not the government's money, to invest in their children to go to school, to go to a private school, to buy a new backpack. 
The first impulse of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton is to take rights away from law- abiding citizens. 
But at the same time, putting in place legal regimes that encourage the payment of ransom has the effect of putting a bounty on other Americans. 
I'm the only person on this stage that actually was involved in the chief architect of balancing the Federal Budget. 
In our state, which is what we should do in the country, you know, if they drive a truck from Kabul to Kandahar in Afghanistan, we say, you can drive a truck from Columbus to Cleveland, and you don't have to go get a license. 
And that is what I believe and many economists believe. 
He's not going down excuse me...wait a minute, and these people may even be tougher than Chris Christie. OK? 
You wrote a book where you changed your position from a path of citizenship to a path of legalization. 
You say that it is only a last resort measure, but the government of Puerto Rico has said that bankruptcy is it's last resort. 
Second of all, I heard the same evidence from President Bush and Dick Cheney and Don Rumsfeld about why we should overthrow Saddam Hussein and get involved in the I would urge people to go to berniesanders.com, hear what I said in 2002. 
But -- and I am discussing it with everybody, but I'm, you know, talking about a lot of leverage. 
And that's why you need an e-verify system and you need an entry-exit tracking system and all sorts of other things to prevent illegal immigration. 
Because I think frankly, maybe I'm wrong, but on our worst day, I think we have a lot more to offer the American people than the right wing's extremists. 
We need 1,000, because we have a lot of natural barriers. 
And ultimately, they'll given a work permit and that's all they're gonna be allowed to have for at least 10 years. 
Iran is sponsoring terrorism in many parts of the world, destabilizing areas. 
She went to one night, had taken too many pills, and Joey walked in and found her dead. 
Well, Neil, I think we've got to work on a two-pronged approach. 
Today, you've got hedge fund billionaires aligned with Karl Rove, running ads against me to try to get Democrats to vote for you. 
And that is exactly the program we're driving in Ohio. 
And by the wayand by the way, if I may, the secretary probably doesn't know that there's not a day that goes by when I am not asked to attack her on that issue, and I have refrained from doing that 
The new normal of two percent that the left is saying you can't do anything about is so dangerous for our country. 
Ruthless is not necessarily the word I would use, but tough, resolute, understanding what the problems are, and understanding that the job of the president of the United States is to protect the people of this country and to do what is necessary in order to get it done. 
I am all in favor of keeping these talented people here so they can go to work in Silicon Valley. 
Corporate inversion is one of the biggest problems we have. 
Actually, with respect, I have gotten the intelligence briefings on the Mid-East. 
I ask for your support on Tuesday to keep America, and make America a safer, stronger, and freer. 
Second pointsecond point is that the only way we make change in terms of health care, in terms of dealing with a broken criminal justice system which, today, allows us to have more people in jail than any other countrylargely African-American and Latinothe only way we create millions of jobs by rebuilding our infrastructure or have a tax system that says to the wealthy that they are going to pay their fair share, is when millions of people become involved in the political process. 
Not only the ones I talk about all the time, Nabisco and Ford and they're all moving out. 
I've set forth very specific plans about how to get costs down, especially prescription drug costs. 
and we're going to have to work our way out of it, including...
We are looking at an economy in which the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. 
And when we see red flags, a father, a mother, a neighbor who says we have got a problem here, then we have to give law enforcement the ability to listen so they can disrupt these terrorist attacks before they occur. 
Because she knows she's wrong, and she cannot look in the mirror at herself, and she cannot tell the American people the truth. 
If you're a farmer, if you're a rancher, if you are small business owner, the death tax is gone. 
ISIS was created because of the void that we left, and that void now exists as a caliphate the size of Indiana. 
It includes the United States leading an air coalition which is what we're doing, supporting fighters on the ground; the Iraqi Army which is beginning to show more ability, the Sunni fighters that we are now helping to reconstitute and Kurdish on both sides of the border. 
We have to destroy their caliphate because that gives them legitimacy to go ahead with the global Jihad. 
But the bottom line is, we can see what happened, everybody can see what happened and you can make your own judgment. 
You're going to get it by paying your employees less and charging your customers more, that is a tax, the difference is, you don't see it on the bill. 
You know, 200 years ago, America was founded on this powerful principle that our rights don't come from government. 
They've got to quit sponsoring Hezbollah and Hamas. 
I used the laws of the country to my benefit, I'm sorry. 
For America to be safe and sound, I ask for you support. 
I think the United States military is operating under rules of engagement that are too strict and that do not allow us to pursue victory. 
We don't have enough competition and we don't have enough oversight of what the insurance companies are charging everybody right now. 
When I was as a private citizen, Florida was confronted with the choice. 
You know, diplomacy is not about getting to the perfect solution. 
We should be intercepting the ships that are leaving North Korea so they're not selling this material, or this technology, or giving it to someone else. 
If you give me your vote on Tuesday I will do just that.
And that, I think, is a situation that we're in right now, a situation that we have never been in before with the kinds of threats that pose real danger to our nation, and it comes in very handy in those situations. 
I mean, so, there's a difference -- I'm the only guy on this stage who's put out a detailed, 12 point plan on entitlement reform and here's why -- because 71% of federal spending right now is on entitlements, and debt service, 71%. 
The blurb said that the next president of the United States has got to be aggressive in bringing people into the political process. 
I'm going to bring jobs back from Mexico and from Japan, where they're all every country throughout the world now Vietnam, that's the new one. 
You can fill out your taxes on a postcard, and we abolish the I.R.S. If you want to see the postcard, I've got it on my website. 
The rebels, we call them the rebels, the patriotic rebels. 
Well, look, I think that she's been saying that for as long as I've known her, which is about 25 years. 
I think we need to put in some armored brigades there. 
Well, in addition to the NRA, the health insurance companies, the drug companies, the Iranians. 
The truth is, Ted, throughout this campaign, you've been willing to say or do anything in order to get votes. 
Eric Holder said he viewed his mission as brainwashing the American people against guns. 
And he stood before the American people and he said, "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself," a profound statement that gave the American people the courage to believe that, yes, we could get out of that terrible depression. 
And then sustaining that rigged economy is a corrupt campaign finance system undermining American democracy, where billionaire, Wall Street, corporate America can contribute unlimited sums of money into super PACs and into candidates. 
And it's just this is not going to make excuse me. 
First, all the 40 million Americans who currently have student debt will be able to refinance their debt to a low interest rate. 
" So I think there is a way to get to cutting off the funding for Planned Parenthood. 
Number one, our goal is to crush and destroy ISIS. What is the best way to do it? 
We need to take care of business, and we need to come home. 
Listen, you know, I if I were sitting at home and watch thing back and forth, I would be inclined to turn it off. 
But if a parent takes money that they have earned to work and invests in their children, they don't? 
They are looking to our clarity of vision and our strength of resolve. 
Well, folks, I've done now over 100 town hall meetings and I've loved every second of it. 
I strongly support the president's executive actions. 
I would shore up our military first, because if you don't get the military right, nothing else is going to work. 
They are doing everything they can to prevent the voices of Americans to be heard. 
And now we have got this horrible deal with Iran where a radical Shia cleric with an apocalyptic vision of the future is also guaranteed to one day possess nuclear weapons and also a long-range rocket that can hit the United States. 
Now, what the magic number is, I don't know, because we don't know the extent of the problem. 
I believe that it's most important that we unleash the full potential of women and girls in our society. 
And the journey from the back of that bar to this stage tonight, to me, that is the essence of the American dream. 
And if I could bring peace, that would be a fantastic thing. 
Atlantic City is a disaster, and I did great in Atlantic City. 
Not a one of them mentioned the fact that under Barack Obama and the big government economy, the median wage for women has dropped $733. 
They'll respect a United States that is serious about protecting our our infrastructure. 
But many of our friends and others in our neighborhood lost their lives that day. 
But here's the problem, we're we're fighting with each other up here. 
And on the other hand is the right of an unborn human child to live. 
I think it's important for people in elected office to try to forge consensus to solve problems. 
And it's especially significant that they are working with both Turkey and Greece in order to do this. 
It's the most exceptional country the world has ever known. 
Drugs is one of the greatest scourge in this country, and I spent five years of my administration working with my team to do a whole sort of things to try to reign in the problem of overdoses, and it goes on and on. 
Sabina Loving is an African-American single mom who started a tax preparation business in the south side of Chicago. 
America is an amazing country, where a kid like me can grow up to run for president of the United States and be on this stage tonight. 
Well, first of all, it's interesting that that happened literally days when this hostage release took place in Iran. 
Just as morale in the military has plummeted in the last seven, so it had then. 
I am very proud that in this campaign, we have seen an enormous amount of excitement from young people, from working people. 
The air strikes are important, but we need to have an air force capable of it. 
But when we came to Washington, we made a different choice. 
It has been a Justice Department that decided that they want to pick who the winners and losers are. 
I think on Article IV of NATO, we would definitely protect all of our allies. 
If you're the King of Jordan, if you're a part of the royal family in Saudi Arabia and he's made this deal with Iran which gives them $150 billion to wage a war and try to extend their empire across the Middle East, why would you want to do it now? 
They get at least fair market value, and if they are smart, they'll get two or three times the value of their property. 
Well, I think he's already regretting what he did in Crimea and what he is doing in the Ukraine. 
But furthermore, what we have got to do, I'm sorry, yes, I do believe that we have got to do everything that we can, and it will not happen tomorrow. 
You know, when you consider how much regulations cost us each year, you know? 
I'm totally against abortion, having to do with Planned Parenthood. 
Well, listen, Hugh, everyone understands why Donald has suggested what he has. 
Don't engage in nation-building but instead, allow our soldiers to do their jobs instead of risking their lives with politicians making it impossible to accomplish the objective. 
And what we said 50 years ago and a hundred years ago is that every kid in this country should be able to get a high school education regardless of the income of their family. 
We are working with the folks in New Hampshire in their legislature right now to show them how we're helping to solve this problem in New Jersey. 
But that's not the issue my problem with what he did is he continues to put out this fiction that there's widespread systematic discrimination against Muslim Americans. 
We have to show that we can march to a balanced budget. 
And, you know, one of the most troubling aspects of the Rubio-Schumer Gang of Eight Bill was that it gave President Obama blanket authority to admit refugees, including Syrian refugees without mandating any background checks whatsoever. 
And I would simply make it a referendum on honesty and integrity versus deceit and the Washington way. 
If they fund these radical groups that threaten Israel and all of the West, then we should rip up the deal and put the sanctions back on. 
So economic power works just as well as military power, perhaps even better. 
The contrast with the Democratic debate, where every fawning question from the media was, "Which of you is more handsome and why?" 
Obviously, that has changed, and it's something that probably needs to be looked at pretty carefully at some point. 
And that includes people of criminal backgrounds, people who are mentally unstable. 
Some of these radicals, they don't care about that. 
The United States must not be involved in perpetual warfare in the Middle East. 
But, taxes too high, wages too high, we're not going to be able to compete against the world. 
I'm going to ask for his ideas, I'm going ask for his advice, and I'm going use him as a goodwill emissary to go around the country to find the best ideas we've got, because I do believe, as he said, everything that's wrong with America has been solved somewhere in America. 
I want to make sure we rein in the excessive use of political power to feather the nest and support the super wealthy. 
Those are the kinds of things that led to the problem in the first place. 
They have worked with me and many have also worked with Senator Sanders. 
So I don't think you can paint with a broad brush. 
That's why John McCain, even though he was born in Panama, was eligible to run for president. 
Personal income during my time went up by 4.4 percent. 
And that is that we have some colleges and universities that are spending a huge amount of money on fancy dormitories and on giant football stadiums. 
And we need a serious modernization program as well on our silo-launched missiles. 
And our most important moral purpose as leaders in the political system is to make sure we create an environment for job creation so people can live their dreams and realize their God-given potential. 
I would go right now to Carrier and I would say I am going to work awfully hard. 
Second, we have a legal immigration system that no longer works. 
Well, I could take issue with -- with all of those things, but we don't have time. 
I've lived my whole life fighting fighting for things that I believe in, fighting for justice and to protect people from crime and terrorism, fighting to stand up for folks who have not had enough and need an opportunity to get more, and to stand up and fight against the special interests. 
Now we have to decide if we are still that kind of party and still that kind of movement, or if we're simply going to become a party that preys on people's angers and fears. 
Also, the your catastrophic healthcare is going to cost a lot less money now because the only thing coming out of that is catastrophic healthcare. 
They're coming to the mainland from Puerto Rico because the economy there is not growing, it's too expensive to do business there. 
And I've done it when I was in Washington when we had a balanced budget; had four years of balanced budgets; paid down a half-trillion of debt. 
I mean, the fact is Benghazi was a disaster because of Libya, everything just fell into place. 
And therefore, they don't get the income tax break, but their prices are going to be higher, because the vat tax is embedded in both the prices that business that are charging and in the wages they pay their employees. 
But on this point, if I may add something on this point. 
I am not going to wait and have us plunge back into a contentious national debate that has very little chance of succeeding. 
Everybody is under fire and under attack, and we have to stand together as an alliance. 
And I think that's an important point to make because I'm going through and analyzing the points you were making, Martha. 
It's a different experience, it's a much different experience. 
I mean, the fences that were there were not manned, and those are the kind of fences when I was a kid that would barely slow us down. 
Well, I agree that we should defund Planned Parenthood. 
It's a country in which people choose to buy guns. 
We owe $19 trillion, boy am I good at solving debt problems. 
You go through different committees, and you really make a big push in the beginning. 
It doesn't do anybody any good if terrorists can move toward encrypted communication that no law enforcement agency can break into before or after. 
We marched up, we broke in, we said, "We've been looking all over for you. 
Small businesses have to create most of the jobs, and we're not creating and growing small businesses. 
I would suggest, why don't we take off all the negative ads and all the negative comments down from television and let us just talk about what we're for, and let's sell that, and the Republican Party will be stronger as a result... 
When you're president of the United States, when you're a governor of a state, the memorized 30-second speech where you talk about how great America is at the end of it doesn't solve one problem for one person. 
As I said, we are spending $200 billion we are spending $200 billion a year on maintaining what we have. 
I opposed and oppose legalization and citizenship. 
It was a vacuum that they filled, and they created an operating space. 
And I certainly respect Senator Sanders' intentions, but when you're talking about health care, the details really matter. 
The result of that, you had the Iranian Revolution coming in, and that is where we are today. 
That's why bringing down communism was so important to him. 
People are supporting me because I have a proven record of conservative leadership where I cut taxes $19 billion over eight years. 
You know, I was not particularly in favor of us going to war in Iraq, primarily because I have studied, you know, the Middle East, recognizing that those are nations that are ruled by dictators and have been for thousands of years. 
And, make sure that they have the most sophisticated weapons to send a signal to Iran that we have Israel's back. 
But I certainly think that the United States should take its full responsibility in helping those people. 
The one thing that we're not mentioning, there's tremendous fraud, waste and abuse in the Veterans Administration and if I'm running things, that's going to disappear and it's going to disappear quickly. 
But if and when we use it when it comes to defeating ISIS, we should use it. 
You know, the fact of the matter is the world is desperate for our leadership. 
Maybe now we can get it moving again so that we can upgrade it so that it does include all the tools and everything in our arsenal that we can use to try to work with our allies and our friends, come up with better intelligence. 
But you just said an executive...knows to step in and bail out a bank. 
I think the more fundamental challenge we're now facing is what's happening to the U.S. military I've said this many times, and I think it's important to start paying attention to this. 
I really don't because it not working and the countries aren't agreeing to it and the rebels aren't agreeing and Syria is not agreeing. 
Well, he he has attempted to muddy the waters, but I think that anyone who watched the battle that we had. 
Everyone of those lives is an individual gift from God. 
That's why I started off by saying we need to be committed to making it possible for every child to live up to his or her god given potential. 
We prosecuted two of the biggest terrorism cases in the world and stopped Fort Dix from being attacked by six American radicalized Muslims from a Mosque in New Jersey because we worked with the Muslim American community to get intelligence and we used the Patriot Act to get other intelligence to make sure we did those cases. 
We we do have energy, we have medical devices, we have financial services, we have I.T., we just got Amazon their Cloud computing in the Midwest. 
John, I had the honor of being chairman of the U.S. Senate committee on Veterans' Affairs for two years. 
Marco's position was the same as it is to illegal amnesty. 
All these things languish while we have politicians in Washington using these as wedge issues. 
We're all in agreement that the Europeans need to do more, but I hate to just tell everybody we are the leader of the world and we should put the pressure on them to do their job. 
Well, first of all, I had a national reporter say, you know, there's three lanes. 
A veterans card to be able to go to a private provider will enhance the quality of the service inside the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
I have a way to pay for it that actually makes the wealthiest pay for it...not everybody else. 
And I will tell you, I don't have to give you a website because I'm self-funding my campaign. 
I know people that are making a tremendous amount of money and paying virtually no tax, and I think it's unfair. 
But in all of that senator and secretary, I think we're leaving out something very important here. 
There's no way, if Saddam had not had weapons of mass destruction, I would have gone, because I don't believe that the U.S. should be involved directly in civil wars. 
But to just look the other way is not acceptable, because, you know what, as the governor of Ohio I have to deal with real challenges, and we've gotten it done in our state, and I will do it for America. 
I want to find out many people saw pipe bombs and all sorts of things all over their apartment. 
We are relying on small campaign donors, 750,000 of them, 30 bucks a piece. 
Turns out that the African-American community and the Latino community were hit especially hard. 
But he's had to fight through this process, and I've watched it firsthand. 
But because of how we respect human rights, because that we are a good force in the world, he wants America to be strong. 
And so if there's someone in that organization, and it turns out there was, who was willing to be able to do that, that's what we should do. 
Now, liberal Democrats have been saying that for years. 
A lot of it has to do with as an example, Josh's question on drugs. 
It's an important one that we should be engaged in. 
And if at the end of 18 months, 24 months there are people who have been cleared, and I would prioritize widows, and orphans, and the elderly, people who may have relatives, families, or have nowhere else to go. 
We should be encouraging the alliance with Japan and South Korea. 
The first thing we better get going is strengthening our economy, because if we don't have a strong economy, we can't pay for all of this. 
Now, having said that, in terms of the rules of engagement, I was talking about, you know, Obama has said, you know, we shouldn't bomb tankers, you know, coming out of refineries because there may be people in there, or because the environment may be hurt. 
One costs $1,500 a year; one costs $10,000 a year. 
Secondly, thank you for including me in the debate. 
Millionaires and billionaires are pouring unbelievable sums of money into the political process in order to fund super PACs and to elect candidates who represent their interests, not the interests of working people. 
It's because we've had a great American success story, the explosion of natural gas. 
And got a lot of votes because of that a lot of votes. 
So let's focus on what this election is really going to be about. 
Some people say it's the new normal, but there's nothing normal about it in an exceptional American. 
In terms of Saudi Arabia, look, my biggest problem with them is they're funding radical clerics through their madrasses. 
And we should tell the Chinese, look, if you're not going to do this ballistic missile defense to the Koreans, ballistic missile defense to Japan and by the way, we should impose the same kind of sanctions on North Korea that we imposed on Iran, because they're able to shift money. 
I really wish the president would think about not nominating somebody. 
I don't think you'd even be talking about illegal immigration if it weren't for me. 
All those things matter but, you know, as a young man in my first election in 1978, I defeated an incumbent Democrat. 
African-American youth unemployment is 51 percent. 
I built a tremendous company and all I want to do is make America great again. 
They could care less about your careers, they care about theirs. 
I don't think it was progressive to vote to give gun makers and sellers immunity. 
And I am going do everything I can to build on the reforms that Senator Sanders and others in Congress have passed to try to fix what's wrong with the V.A. 
We're going to have an election for president very soon, and the people will understand what is at stake in that election. 
I believe that I will get along we will do between that, Ukraine, all of the other problems, we won't have the kind of problems that our country has right now with Russia and many other nations. 
That's where crime is happening in these cities where they don't enforce the immigration laws. 
I agree with much of what the Secretary said, but, madam Secretary, it is not one streak. 
If you go to a national cemetery in this country, you will see stars of Davids and crosses, but you see crescent moons. 
Even if it was a one percent chance, and it's far greater than one percent because . 
We always have to keep the balance of civil liberties, privacy and security. 
As president, however, there's nothing that I would rather do to bring peace to Israel and its neighbors generally. 
When you're fighting wars, you're going one way, you have a plan. 
And the approach, instead of being a Woodrow Wilson democracy promoter...we ought to hunt down our enemies and kill ISIS rather than creating opportunities for ISIS to take control of new countries. 
Well, let me begin by answering both the first question and this one, because they're related. 
House leadership intended to take it up and pass it with the Democrats overruling most of the Republicans. 
When millions of Americans rose up against amnesty, I was proud to lead that fight. 
The family is the most important institution in society. 
CRUZ: I think issues and substance, policy and vision and record should be the meat of politics. 
They would like to rip it up and start all over again, throw our nation back into this really contentious debate that we've had about health care for quite some time now. 
I'm going to give it to my family and my friends and the people around me. 
I'm gonna fight as hard as I can to make sure that we shift power away from Washington, simplify the tax code, to spur economic activity in this country. 
And ISIS is attacking France and attacking Russian airliners. 
Our trade policies have cost us millions of decent jobs. 
Barack Obama is, indeed, trying to redefine this country. 
Since the day I walked in as governor, Planned Parenthood has not been funded in New Jersey. 
Joseph Stalin said if you want to bring America down you, have to undermine three things: our spiritual life, our patriotism and our morality. 
Yes, they have to stop being the main state sponsor of terrorism. 
But you know Michael Novak, the great Catholic theologian, says that a free enterprise system that is not underlaid with values and we should all think about the way we conduct our lives yes, free enterprise is great, profits are great, but there have to be some values that underlay it, and they need a good ethics lesson on Wall Street on a regular basis to keep them in check so we, the people, do not lose. 
And I think everybody on this stage would have to agree you're not going to let people die, sitting in the middle of a street in any city in this country. 
And, you miss-stated what I've said on entitlement reform. 
We need more win-wins in America and we don't have to pick one over another divide. 
First of all, Nikki this afternoon said I'm a friend of hers. 
Target the efforts for people that are committing crimes with guns, and if you do that, and get it right, you're going to be much better off than creating a political argument where there's a big divide. 
I don't want to say politicians, all talk, no action. 
We're going to make great deals on it, but we're not going to let them die in the streets. 
I want to say something about this, because I'm not here just to add beauty to the stage. 
When we're weak militarily it doesn't matter what we say. 
And we give it to everybody from birth until death. 
Well, we're gonna win because first, we're gonna explain what democratic socialism is. 
So I know it's hard, but I also know you've got to work at it every single day. 
We stood up and every one of those vetoes has been sustained. 
I learned seven years as a federal prosecutor in dealing with types of situations like we're talking about in North Korea, where criminals take people hostage. 
Guidelines as to how to accomplish that were spelled out in an autopsy report that concluded, and I'm going to quote it, "if hispanic Americans hear that the GOP doesn't want them in the United States they won't pay attention to our next sentence." 
When Jeb comes out and he talks about the border, and I saw it and I was witness to it, and so was everyone else, and I was standing there, "they come across as an act of love," he's saying the same thing right now with radical Islam. 
And he had to pay a million dollars or so in a judgment from...
That's what I did as a first lady, when I worked with both Democrats and Republicans to get the Children's Health Insurance Program, when I worked with Tom DeLay, one of the most partisan of Republicans, to reform the adoption and foster care system. 
But what I was saying look, it is qualitatively different dealing with a country once they have nuclear weapons. 
So I believe that working with Europe and, by the way, you know, we've got some very wealthy countries there in that part of the world. 
President Reagan believed in the future of our country, believed in its greatness, had a hopeful, optimistic message. 
My mom who's here today, was a single mom when my father left us when I was 3 years old. 
You remember the fire fighter with his arms around it? 
Well, let's understand that when we talk about Syria, you're talking about a quagmire in a quagmire. 
I thought you might want to come, but I guess not. 
I appreciate your dumping your research folder on the stage. 
It's tax-free a huge advantage for our farmers and ranchers and manufacturers and every import pays the 16 percent business flat tax. 
I am very proud to be the only candidate up here who does not have a Super PAC, who's not raising huge sums of money from Wall Street And special interests. 
We don't get along with anybody, and yet, at the same time, they rip us left and right. 
She wouldn't just be a disaster, Hillary Clinton is disqualified from being commander in chief of the United States. 
I watched him meltdown on the stage like that, I've never seen it in anybody...
I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding. 
And Mitt Romney didn't file his return until a September 21st of 2012, about a month-and-a-half before the election. 
I also am very committed to getting the price of drugs down. 
He wrote a forward for a book that basically argued voters should have buyers' remorse when it comes to President Obama's leadership and legacy. 
That's why I am laying out a specific agenda that will make more progress, get more jobs with rising incomes, get us to universal health care coverage, get us to universal pre-k, paid family leave and the other elements of what I think will build a strong economy, that will ensure Americans keep making progress. 
But we need, Jeb, to build a wall, we need to keep illegals out. 
Yes, they have to stop trying to destabilize the Middle East, causing even more chaos. 
Out of hundreds of deals that I've done, hundreds, on four occasions I've taken advantage of the laws of this country, like other people. 
Number one, on the Libya situation, we didn't topple Gadhafi, the Libyan people toppled Gadhafi. 
So I think, yeah, regime change is easy, getting rid of dictators is easy. 
Radical Islam is on the rise, Iran's on the verge of acquiring a nuclear weapon, China is waging cyber warfare against America, Russia -- General Soleimani, you just mentioned, the Iranian general is the head of the al Quds forces. 
Middle class in this country for the last 40 years has been disappearing; are we better off today than we were when Bush left office? 
I tried (ph), early in my marriage, explaining to my wife why someone named Sallie Mae was taking $1,000 out of our bank account every month. 
After that you pay 10 percent as a flat tax going up. 
And if we would support them, we'd have a perfect ideal there. 
In the groups in the countries of the Gulf states of Bahrain, the Cleveland Clinic is opening an operation. 
And I think this has become something that needs to be looked at in terms of regulation. 
That is why we need to make police -- and I speak as a former mayor. 
For example, the last poll I sawthere may have been a new onelast one I saw here in New Hampshire, a battleground state, had me defeating Trump by 19; the secretary defeating him by one. 
It has not been in effect during the administration of Barack Obama. 
And then we saw that the leading candidates for president at the time, both the Republican and the Democrats, all supported it. 
And, you know the old inscription, if you save one life, you've changed the world. 
Examine our records, pray on it and I will be honored if you and your family will come caucus for us on Monday night.
Excuse me, he called me a liar, then interrupted the whole time. 
We have a president of the United States that is undermining this country's security and expanding the role of...
What my campaign is about is a political revolution -- millions of people standing up and saying, enough is enough. 
You do that through tax reform and regulatory reform. 
Here's a guy here's a guy that buys a house for $179,000, he sells it to a lobbyist who's probably here for $380,000 and then legislation is passed. 
A lot of people think, Hugh, that they are ISIS. We have to do one thing at a time. 
As far as Planned Parenthood is concerned, I'm pro-life. 
If they don't do it within that time period, then they become illegal, and as illegals, they will be treated as such. 
Well, I think you have to look at both the terrorism challenge that we face abroad and certainly at home and the role that guns play in delivering the violence that stalks us. 
It absolutely has been, and at the time in the context of that was in 2009, and 2010, where the last effort for legalization was an effort done in the Senate. 
It's time for us to stand up for what we believe in. 
And after we have done those two things, I think the American people are gonna be reasonable with what do you do with someone who has been in this country for 10 or 12 years who hasn't otherwise violated our laws because if they're a criminal they can't stay. 
She's nine months, she walks across the border, she has the baby in the United States, and we take care of the baby for 85 years. 
And that's how I will be president, using that experience to drive this country forward. 
I think I was the first one to start talking about it because I say we have to have a proactive foreign policy strategy. 
One of the things that made Ronald Reagan a great president, is that he understood that America was a unique nation, like any other that had existed throughout human history. 
Because you take a baby in and I've seen it and I've seen it, and I had my children taken care of over a long period of time, over a two or three year period of time. 
Because I think everybody has to have some skin in this game, you know. 
And we've got to do more on equal pay for equal work. 
I mean, you know the fact is, Neil, let's think about let's think about and I want to maybe I hope the president is watching tonight, because here's what I'd like to tell him. 
Effectively it is day trading without any regulation at all. 
George Herbert Walker Bush appointed David Souter. 
Number one, in 1990, in one room was David Souter, and in another room was Edith Jones, the rock ribbed (ph) conservative on the fifth circuit court of appeals. 
...Middle ground that brings both of these together...
Arizona put in very tough laws on illegal immigration, and the result was illegal immigrants fled the state, and what's happened there it was a very interesting article. 
Number one, you know, I've talked to farmers, and they said they cannot hire Americans to do the kind of job that I'm talking about. 
Bottom line is, we need to be bold and decisive, we can create millions of jobs. 
Can I just finish my...I've gained great respect for the Republican leadership. 
Let's start with immigration and have a little bit of clarity. 
We need to make the government run smarter and better, and reform this corporate tax system, bring that money back to the United States to build jobs and rebuild our infrastructure, and we need to use it also to protect our grid from terrorists. 
What the polls are showing is that we are actually defeating the secretary among younger people. 
And that's why Monday night, what will happen here in Iowa is so important. 
Get it done, because our our children and grandchildren are counting on us to get it done. 
Yes, it's true, I supported the Republican nominee once he was made. 
I am proud that, along with Senator Barbara Boxer, a few years ago, we introduced the first piece of climate change legislation which called for a tax on carbon. 
Well, look, I recognize it is an agonizing experience when anyone is facing a loved loved member who's been kidnapped. 
In this administration, every weapon system has been gutted, in this administration, the force levels are going down to a level where we can't even project force. 
This is about people's lives, and we should level with the American people about what we can do to make sure they get quality affordable healthcare. 
The fact is what we need is someone on that stage who has been tested, who has been through it, who has made decisions, who has sit in the chair of consequence and can prosecute the case against Hillary Clinton on that stage, and that is exactly what I am ready to do. 
If Donald Trump is president, your Second Amendment will gone... 
And for the seven years afterwards, New Jersey was threatened like no other region in this country and what we did was we took action within the constitution to make sure that law enforcement had all the information they needed. 
Well, I'm just not sure I agree completely with that assessment. 
Think about the fathers of Los Angeles, who tomorrow will head off to work and wonder about the safety of their wives and their children. 
I think being the first woman president would be quite a change from the presidents we've had up until this point, including President Obama. 
We have to go after terrorist networks, predominantly ISIS that's not the only one, but let's focus on that for a minute. 
And when you're funding open border politicians, you shouldn't be surprised when they fight for open borders. 
I believe that we can get back on the right track. 
And, I'll note finally, Chris, there is a reason that Iowa's Congressman Steve King, perhaps the fiercest defender of farmers in this state, is sharing my campaign. 
And there's a bunch of things my tax plan does to help them. 
Hillary doesn't want to run against me, but I cannot wait to run against her. 
That's what we're taught when we have strong faith. 
My wife says, "You'll never be Unite One, I'm Unite One. 
We have a reduction in violent crime because we put people behind bars when they use a gun in the commission of the crime. 
The solution to the problems we have today are not a tax increase. 
The terrible, authoritarian, Communist dictatorship he warned us about, now he's urging companies to shut down and move to China. 
But I'd say to him, "Listen, Mr. President, there's a no-fly zone in Syria; you fly in, it applies to you." 
But, we should have gotten rid of the borders, we should have gotten rid of the lines around the state so there's great competition. 
But the only way forward on this issue you asked a question about flexibility. 
What I say to Carla is that the first job of the president of the United States is to protect your safety and your security and the security and safety of your family. 
Look at the rallies that every single person on this stage is having. 
You can call it visas, you can call it work permits, you can call it anything you want. 
Obviously, I believe that on a college campus, there should be enough respect so people hear each other. 
I see people exercising the most irresponsible fiscal habits that anyone could possibly do. 
If there is a large voter turnout, not only do we retain the White House, but I think we regain the Senate. 
You see what the Saudi's deliver them a strong message but at the end of the day we have to keep our cool because most of the time they're going right with us. 
And when I'm president, we are going to bring it under control once and for all after 30 years of talking about it. 
In eight years, George W. Bush deported 10 million people. 
That's why I asked congress, go ahead and declare the war . 
And I'm going to tell you, that it I'm going to suggest to you here tonight, that you can't do on the job training. 
Because they know I'm going to bring jobs back from China, from Japan, from so many other places. 
They're devaluing their currency and they're killing our companies. 
I want to thank Rand for another 30 seconds, because, number one, what he's pointing to is a bill last week that amendment that he voted for that only 10 people voted for. 
And we can't afford to do that because that will fundamentally change America. 
I'm running for president to knock down all the barriers that are holding Americans back, and to rebuild the ladders of opportunity that will give every American a chance to advance, especially those who have been left out and left behind. 
And let me tell you, ISIS and terrorists do not get their guns from a gun show. 
Every one of them that I could find to tell them that I was praying for them, that I cared about them, and it was really hard to do. 
We don't need the Federal Government to be involved in this, because when they do we create a $1.2 trillion debt. 
If we are going to compete in this world we're in today, there is no possible way we can do it with lowering expectations and dumbing down everything. 
Well, thank you, and thanks to everyone for hosting this first of the Democratic debates. 
And the fact is, a free enterprise system is a system that's produced the greatest wealth for the world. 
We eliminate the payroll tax, we eliminate the Obamacare taxes. 
And there is only one person on this stage who voted to take away authority from the SEC and the Commodities Future Trading Commission that they could no longer regulate what are called swaps and derivatives, which actually contributed to the collapse of Lehman Brothers, and that was Senator Sanders. 
And that someone in that office has to do their job. 
So the answer is no and what Jeb said is absolutely correct. 
The American people have been told for 30 years they're going to enforce the border, they're going to build a wall and it never gets built and it never happens. 
Oh yeah, we want to elect a good president, but America is great from the bottom-up, and the bottom-up is us in our families, in our communities, in our neighborhoods. 
If you elect me president, we will have a president that believes America is the greatest country in the world and we will have a president that acts like it. 
If a regular law enforcement agency wants your phone records, all they have to do is issue a subpoena. 
And frankly, so has everybody else in my position. 
He interpreted it the right way, the courts ruled in his favor, and Planned Parenthood did not get funding during that time until President Clinton came in. 
It will take Sunni fighters themselves in that region to take those villages and cities, and then to hold them and avoid the sort of sectarian violence that follows in the past. 
It puts us on a level, even playing field, which brings jobs here at home...and as president, I'm going to fight for the working men and women. 
Maybe that's the only part that's good news, so that you guys can get a feel for what it's like now to see this type of attack. 
The problem is, that as a result of a corrupt campaign finance system, Congress is not listening to the American people. 
In 1988, just to set the record straight governor, I ran for the U.S. House. 
The American people don't trust the Federal Government to enforce our immigration laws, and we will not be able to do anything on immigration until we first prove to the American people that illegal immigration is under control. 
But I think we need improvements in the process by which results are determined. 
Well, first, let me say I think God has blessed us. 
I have made the decisions that need to be made as a governor to protect us and as president of the United States, no one will keep this country safer than I will.
Jordan, we want the king to reign for 1,000 years. 
If this all works out, I'm happy to consider naming you as V.P. 
Well, I think Secretary Clinton knows that what she says is very disingenuous. 
And you know what, they do exactly what those folks want them to do. 
Because the country will become a dynamic economy. 
I did hope that the TPP, negotiated by this administration, would put to rest a lot of the concerns that many people have expressed about trade agreements. 
So our number one priority must now become ensuring that ISIS cannot get killers into the United States. 
The next thing I intend to do is instruct the Department of Justice and the IRS to start (sic) persecuting religious liberty, and then intend to cancel the Iran deal, and finally move the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. 
If we want to lift people out of poverty you know, I think of these issues from the perspective of my dad. 
So, I think we've got to understand the complexity of the world that we are facing and no place is more so than in the Middle East. 
They hit us with a cyberattack simultaneously and dirty bombs. 
The middle class bailed out Wall Street in their time of need. 
The idea that there has not been a dramatic response is beyond comprehension. 
It should follow the principles of expanding competition, empowering patients, and keeping government from getting in between us and our doctors. 
and now you have these people in the government who are doing the same thing to Secretary Powell and Secretary Rice's aide they've been doing to me, which is that I never sent or received any classified material. 
But the bottom line is, every morning I get up, I veto 400 bills from a crazy liberal Democratic legislature, not one of them has been overridden. 
I don't think they dropped all the amendments into a hat and picked them out of a hat. 
And I don't think you have to be a politician to tell the truth. 
We have got to make sure that local police departments look like the communities they serve in their diversity. 
And the fact that this president led from behind meant there were no alternative groups on the ground to be empowered, leaving ISIS with the prime operating space they needed to become the force they have now become. 
I have debt-free tuition plans, free community college plans, getting student debt down. 
And by the way, I want Wall Street now to help kids in this country go to college, public colleges and universities, free with a Wall Street speculation tax. 
But you know what, we -- we need strength, we need energy, we need quickness and we need brain in this country to turn it around. 
Because of a series of disastrous trade policies which have allowed corporate America through NAFTA and Permanent Normal Trade Relations with China, Secretary Clinton and I disagree on those issues. 
But as president, I will spend even more time thinking about the futures of all the kids and the grandchildren in this country because I want to make sure every single child has a chance to live up to his or her God-given potential. 
The question of whether we should toppling dictatorships is asking the wrong question. 
They have to pay a back-tax penalty, have to pay taxes going forward, but they don't have to live underground anymore. 
In the last 30 years, there has been a massive redistribution of wealth. 
He has supported he has given hundreds of thousands of dollars to Democrats. 
You know, our country since its inception has been at war, every 15 or 20 years. 
But the fact is that there are people that truly don't need it, and there are many people that do need it very, very badly. 
On these videos, Planned Parenthood also essentially confesses to multiple felonies. 
Moved them again beyond the border, they came back. 
We should not be policemen of the world, but when we go, we mean business. 
But the process should move forward while we are also taking on ISIS, putting together the kind of strategy that I've advocated for, and making sure that the vetting and the screening is as tough as possible. 
We've cut $5 billion in taxes and we've grown 350,000 jobs. 
I don't think Senator Rubio is a skeptic of climate change. 
That is what this debate is all about, and I would suggest let's stay focused on those issues rather than just attacks directed at each other. 
I do want to take a second as we reflected on Judge Scalia, it's amazing it's not even two minutes after the death of Judge Scalia, nine children here today, their father didn't wake up. 
So, if it weren't for me, you wouldn't even be talking about illegal immigration, Chris. 
And I think we've got to move aggressively at the federal level in dealing with the straw man purchasers. 
Border security has always been a part of that debate. 
We have a society where people millions of people are living paycheck to paycheck. 
So, giving veterans more choices, creating centers of excellence, focusing on the true problems that exist. 
Well, first of all, Wolf, I said last February that we needed to have people on the ground, troops on the ground in a coalition similar to what we had in the first Gulf War. 
Because we are going to have to hit very, very hard to knock out ISIS. We're going to also have to learn who our allies are. 
The fact is that if you listen to Hillary Clinton the other day, what she said to the American people was, as regards to ISIS, my strategy would be just about the same as the president's. 
What I said was that I think that Dr. Carson's ideas are good ideas. 
He's stolen that from us, and when I'm president, I'm going to take it back. 
And the more we disengage, the more airplanes from Moscow you're going to see flying out of Damascus and out of Syria...as you asked earlier today. 
The Kurds are incredible fighters and they will liberate the Kurdish areas, but Kurds can not and do not want to liberate and hold Sunni villages and towns. 
Our legal immigration system from now on has to be merit-based. 
So, do you think that your fellow Republican candidates get it? 
They will not do a thing to cure the drought here in California. 
If, heaven forbid, that next president is a Republican, I think it's pretty clear we know what will happen. 
I'm tied in Texas, by the way, which I shouldn't be. 
No. 2, I do not believe the president should appoint someone. 
We need to have a coalition that will stand for nothing less than the total destruction of ISIS and we have to be the leader. 
There's many other tools that we have without canceling a dinner. 
Now, when it mattered, he stood up and took on Wall Street. 
So, what my first days are about is bringing America together, to end the decline of the middle class, to tell the wealthiest people in this country that yes, they are going to start paying their fair share of taxes, and that we are going to have a government that works for all of us, and not just big campaign contributors. 
Can you imagine General Douglas MacArthur or General Patton saying we can't bomb because we're gonna hurt the atmosphere? 
And if that means taking on Wall Street, I have a plan that is tough and comprehensive and praised by a lot of folks who say it goes further than what both Senator Sanders and Governor O'Malley are proposing. 
: Andrea...We should we should learn we should learn from King Abdullah of Jordan, one of the few heroes in a very unheroic place. 
Well, you know, a general election is different than a primary and caucus process. 
The problem with Canada, you're talking about a massively long piece. 
And I cannot wait to earn the opportunity to do it because she cannot be the president of the United States. 
There were provisions in it that I think made sense. 
well I voted for his amendment to increase military spending to $697 billion. 
Remember, we have 645 federal agencies and sub-agencies. 
We need to eliminate the sequester which is devastating our military. 
He valued my judgment, and I spent a lot of time with him in the Situation Room, going over some very difficult issues. 
It's about believing, unlike Barack Obama, that the world is a safer and a better place when America is the strongest military and the strongest nation on this planet. 
As it relates to my brother, there's one thing I know for sure. 
Really systemic racism in this state, as in others, education, in employment, in the kinds of factors that too often lead from a position where young people, particularly young men, are pushed out of school early, are denied employment opportunities. 
They are more likely to know what's happening in their families and their communities, and they need to feel not just invited, but welcomed within the American society. 
Since it was passed, more than 2 million prohibited purchases have been prevented. 
I do support protection for the life of the mother because I'm pro-life. 
And so, now that, I think, you know, we have resolved your data, we have agreed on an independent inquiry, we should move on. 
So as I look at what the president it doing, it adds up to me. 
My political team saw CNN's report breaking news and they forwarded that news to our volunteers, it was being covered on live television. 
So if we want to pick and choose and I certainly do people I listen to, people I don't listen to, people I listen to for certain areas, then I think we have to be fair and look at the entire world, because it's a big, complicated world out there. 
So it was a difficult decision to make, and when we only had a few days to look at and make a decision on it, and I voted against Barack Obama's plan to use force, and it was the right decision. 
Both in Congress in balancing the budget and in Ohio fixing the economy and, by the way, we talk about the fence. 
I think Bernie Sanders is good candidate for president of Sweden. 
That is the way to deal with China at the end of the day. 
And in Dodd-Frank, you have actually codified too big to fail. 
The endorsements that I am proud of are leading conservatives like Iowa's own Congressman Steve King, who is a national co-chairman of my campaign. 
They say, "Keep going, keep going, you dummies, keep going. 
As one magazine said, he's a world-class businessman; he was friendly with everybody. 
If only you look at the big banks, you may be missing the forest for the trees. 
And, that makes it harder for people to have confidence that they won't veer off...
What the nightmare is, which many of my Republican colleagues appear to want is to not have learned the lesson of Iraq. 
If there are a lot of people getting there and engaging in radicalizing activities then we need to be suspicious of it. 
But at the end of the day, no doubt, the Affordable Care Act is a step forward. 
Where I see the weakness is in those three people that are left on the Democratic stage. 
If we do what needs to be done tax reform, regulatory reform, fully utilize our energy resources, repeal and replace Obamacare, and modernize higher education, then we can grasp the potential and the promise of this new economy. 
Now, it is Wall Street's time to help the middle class. 
Name a country where our relationship is better today than it was the the day that Barack Obama got elected president. 
He made many of the changes that I've made I mean, I've seen as I grew up, I've seen, and as I get older and wiser, and I feel that I am a conservative. 
It is not just a bad health care law, it is a job-killing law. 
We're actually running significant health reform in my state. 
And so, while he would like to use a sympathetic story to back up his point, it doesn't work. 
Simplifying the code and lowering rates, both for corporations and and personal rates, is exactly what we need to do. 
If we do it, we will beat Hillary Clinton, and we will run the White House, and we will strengthen and fix America, I promise you.
He served as a green beret in the 7th Special Forces from 1968 through 1971. 
This is why this is what I said at the beginning that this administration, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton through their foreign policy, have betrayed the American people, because the weakness they've displayed has led to Putin's incursions in the Middle East and in eastern Europe, and has led has led to significant problems in the Middle East as well, and the death and murder of lots of folks. 
It will be such a good program that nobody will want Obamacare after that, and that's probably the best way do it, although if anybody still did, I would still de-fund it. 
I'm a strong supporter of comprehensive immigration reform. 
But we have to also go after the gun lobby and 92 percent of Americans agree we should have universal background checks. 
Every sovereign nation secures its borders, and it is not compassionate to say we're not going to enforce the laws And we're going to drive down the wages for millions of hardworking men and women. 
What I've always said is that this issue does need to be solved. 
I'm fighting for people who cannot wait for those changes, and I'm not making promises that I cannot keep. 
And in that interview, he explained his views on a whole host of issues that were very, very different from the views he's describing now. 
Number one, if they violate it, we need to move against them. 
So we do as the United States have to support our friends, our allies in Europe. 
Well, John, I come from the '60s, a long time ago. 
When it comes to ISIS, we will not weaken them, we will not degrade them, we will utterly and completely destroy ISIS . 
She was in Ohio, I think, in September or November and she got up and said something like, I have beenI'm paraphrasing, I have been criticized because people think I'm a moderate. 
When we do that, we can, in fact, transform America. 
When I am president of the United States, veterans will be able to take their benefits to any hospital or doctor that they choose. 
When it comes to the audit the Fed bill, as Rand knows well, I was an original sponsor of the bill, I'm strongly supportive of it. 
When we shut the government down if we have a chance at success and it's a great principle, yes. 
But those kinds of personal assessments and charges are ones that I find particularly troubling. 
One of the things that you'll notice if you look through my life is that I don't do a lot of talking. 
One of the worst contracts ever signed, ever, in anything, and it's a disgrace. 
Now, what we need to do is look at something that actually works. 
Your question was you have disagreed opening statement. 
And when people come together in a way that does not exist now and are prepared to take on the big money interest, then we could bring the kind of change we need. 
The power is so massive that we can't just leave areas that 50 years ago or 75 years ago we wouldn't care. 
You go back to 1986, when they legalized three million people and they promised to secure the border. 
Those countries are the source of the people that are now coming in its majority. 
With respect to the United States, I think our role in NATO, our support for the E.U., as well as our willingness to take refugees so long as they are thoroughly vetted and that we have confidence from intelligence and other sources that they can come to our country, we should be doing our part. 
Secondly, a policy on recruiting and hiring, and then more resources for for training. 
And on our worst days, I think it is fair to say we are 100 times better than any Republican candidate. 
I believe if this amendment were to pass, the chances of this bill passing into law would increase dramatically. 
The Libyans turned out for one of the most successful, fairest elections that any Arab country has had. 
We don't have to have refugees come to our country, but all Muslims, seriously? 
The next President going to have to forge consensus to bring about a set of common purposes so that we can move forward again in this country...this relates to strategic patience. 
Well, I'm very happy to get a question this early on. 
If we want to raise the minimum wage to $15 bucks an hour, workers are going to have to come together and look the Republicans in the eye, and say, "We know what's going on. 
Listen, in any Republican primary, everyone is going to say they support the Second Amendment. 
You have gotten a whole lot of money over the years from Wall Street. 
Look, I have a balanced budget plan that cuts taxes, reforms regulations, but also builds the military, puts a $100 billion dollars more in defense. 
You know, we didn't get to talk about the continuing struggles that Americans face with racism, with sexism, with discrimination against the LGBT community, with new Americans, with people with disabilities. 
They are the key to being able to settle this situation. 
The governor was supportive of doing what John did. 
And when I look at it, I don't think it's tenable. 
Well, I heard Hugh Hewitt, a nice man, he apologized because he actually said that we had a misunderstanding. 
If we if we don't act now, we are going to be the first generation in American history that leaves our children worse off than ourselves. 
But, if you want to talk about weakness, you want to talk about weakness? 
Oh, let me just say look, I am very open I hired top people. 
We cannot deal with all three of these problems in one massive piece of legislation. 
I mean, that's like a board game, that's like playing Monopoly or something. 
He was the U.S. attorney in Manhattan when I was a U.S. attorney in New Jersey. 
It was a coalition made up of Arabs and Americans and westerners and we're going to need it again. 
You know, I've had a conservative message, but a positive message not just a conservative message, but a positive message about how we can bring people together, how we can restore America's strength, lift everyone. 
You joined the Senate in voting to get rid of Gadhafi, and you asked that there be a Security Council validation of that with a resolution. 
$19 billion of tax cuts, 1.3 million jobs created. 
Well, let me just let me just say, once again that, having been in the trenches fighting for this, I believe strongly we have to guarantee health care. 
And here's the last piece you're not going to have peace in Syria with Assad in charge. 
So count me in as somebody who will not be listening to Henry Kissinger. 
And it's available on paperback, if you're interested in buying my book. 
And I am telling you that the only way forward on this issue that has any chance of happening, meaning gaining the support of the American people, you cannot do this without the support of the American people, is an approach that begins by proving that once and for all, illegal immigration is under control. 
We are not facing a president that doesn't know what he's doing. 
If we do that and if we do this if we do this, we will be able to increase wages for millions of Americans and we will be able to leave everyone better off without making anyone worse off. 
People are working longer hours for lower wages, and almost all of the new income and wealth goes to the top one percent. 
Let's ask why it is that we pay, by far, the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs, and your medicine can be doubled tomorrow, and there's nothing that the government can do to stop it. 
And you think about the Los Angeles schools canceling their schools today. 
We need the lawyers off the back of the war fighters. 
I would have policies that wouldn't allow that to occur. 
There was no question because I heard when he said the statement. 
They've given out $140 million of bonuses to Veterans Department employees, including reducing the waiting lists, without giving veterans care. 
And what we also said, "is a small mom and pop gun shop who sells a gun legally to somebody should not be held liable if somebody does something terrible with that gun." 
I think the next president if I'm president, I will appoint people I'll nominate people that have a proven record in the judiciary. 
We've had seven years with Barack Obama in the oval office, a commander-in-chief that is unwilling even to acknowledge the enemy we're facing. 
Your millionaire and billionaire friends caused this problem. 
And there's all sorts of ways that can be done at the state, local and federal level to do that. 
You know, obviously, as president of the United States, we've got to keep the people safe. 
When I was in Washington, I fought to get the budget balanced. 
And it will begin by bringing illegal immigration under control and proving to the American people. 
I'm the only person up here that fought against going into Iraq. 
And there are lots of reasons why Americans today are feeling left out and left behind. 
As far as coming back in, number one, you wouldn't even be talking, and you wouldn't have asked that as the first question if it weren't for me when my opening when I talked about illegals immigration. 
They fly in there a second time, they will not fly out. 
But it was wrong to ask the middle class to bail out Wall Street. 
And I have really started to see some of the negatives -- as an example, and I have a lot of liking for this man, but the last number of months of his brother's administration were a catastrophe. 
Yes, we will do my tax plan, and it will be great. 
I think he has addressed a lot of these issues that have been quite difficult, but he has gone forward. 
They're they're attacking our our our team, the team that we've been training and the team that we've been supporting. 
And they see the airstrikes that are being conducted now, and they say to themselves, that's not real commitment. 
We are going to take those people and those people are going to be serviced by doctors and hospitals. 
Women are not charged more than men any longer for our health insurance. 
But look, I have a plan that most commentators have said is tougher, more effective, and more comprehensive. 
We left the state better off because I applied conservative principles in a purple state the right way, and people rose up. 
I believe I have the skills to take our party to victory in November. 
Now, there has been a lot of turmoil and trouble as they have tried to deal with these radical elements which you find in this arc of instability, from north Africa to Afghanistan. 
So if we're going to be talking like this, we can -- and maybe we can score some political points -- but the fact is: Every one of us stands for the kind of economy that will work better for every American. 
That in fact we don't need this massive government intervention to deal with the problem. 
Now, I know that it may be buzzing out there, but I think it's important we get to the issues, because that's what people want, and they don't want all this fighting. ...
So, yes, I do believe that when we talk about public education in America, today, in a rapidly changing world, we should have free tuition at public colleges and universities. 
Frankly, we are republicans and they're democrats but before all of that, we're Americans. 
I'm the granddaughter of a factory worker and the grandmother of a wonderful one-year-old child. 
And if we topple Assad, the result will be ISIS will take over Syria, and it will worsen U.S. national security interests. 
The United States, at the same time, cannot successfully fight Assad and ISIS. ISIS, now, is the major priority. 
I do agree that in particular, Turkey and the Gulf nations have got to make up their minds. 
But I also understand, when a law enforcement official charged with the responsibility of preventing attacks -- to go back to our early questions, how do we prevent attacks -- well, if we can't know what someone is planning, we are going to have to rely on the neighbor or, you know, the member of the mosque or the teacher, somebody to see something. 
He can't prosecute the case against Hillary, and we can't risk another four years of these failed Obama policies by nominating someone who loses to Hillary Clinton in November. 
On Obamacare, both Donald and I say we want to end it, but for very different reasons. 
But first of all...first of all, I'm don't worry, I'm not leaving the stage no matter what you ask me. 
Both Donald and Hillary Clinton want to be neutral, to use Donald's word, between Israel and the Palestinians. 
Every one of us must fight for it, because we're fighting for our children and the next generation.
You do that, Social Security is solvent until 2061 and you can expand benefits. 
Well, it was very interesting having an opportunity to talk to the Syrians themselves. 
Well, let me address college affordability, because I have a plan that I think will really zero in on what the problems are. 
I've tried to keep my disagreements over issues, as it should be. 
It's also about choosing our next commander-in-chief. 
Well, I think it's wonderful and all, but I did it a little bit half-heartedly, but I do mean it to a large extent. 
The B-52, as someone earlier pointed out, is an outdated model that was flown by the grandparents of people that are flying it now. 
I certainly am not campaigning to become president because my last name is Clinton. 
Not to mention the fact that you have much more oil than you do in Iraq. 
I never took a position on Keystone until I took a position on Keystone. 
No, I won't do that, because I've said nothing wrong. 
Our allies don't trust us, our adversaries don't fear us, Iran captures our sailors and parades them before the world on video. 
And it is a the kind of criticism that we've heard from Senator Sanders about our president I expect from Republicans. 
Well, then, if I can't if hey, if I can't beat her, you're really going to get killed, aren't you? 
It's going to implode in 2017, just like you're sitting there. 
I'm skeptical of the decisions that the left wants us to make, because I know the impact those are going to have and they're all going to be on our economy. 
Paul Volcker, one of the leading lights of trying to reign in the excesses, has also said he does not support reinstating Glass-Steagall. 
But while we're talking about votes, you're the one who voted to deregulate swaps and derivatives in 2000, which contributed to the over-leveraging of Lehman Brothers, which was one of the culprits that brought down the economy. 
Of course we have to do more to incentivize profit sharing, like we see with Market Basket right here in New Hampshire and New England, where all of the employees get a chance to share in the profits. 
That my point that I made was you had criticized Mitt Romney for self-deportation. 
How did you what did it take to ensure that the American people, despite all of the difficulties of the time you know, you look back at that time, the American military was in decline. 
I will, and the wall just got 10 feet taller, believe me. 
But the bottom line is, if you look at his record over the last 25 or 30 years, on issue after issue, he has not been on our side. 
I think she said something like the bulk of the responsibility is not ours. 
Judy, if I can, there is no question, Secretary Clinton and I are friends, and I have a lot of respect for her, that she has enormous experience in foreign affairs. 
A 4 percent growth strategy starts with tax reform. 
I was asked should it be raised, I said, probably, or possibly. 
I mean, a lot of the things that we're talking about here tonight, on the border, and so many of the things. 
Dodd-Frank has actually done the opposite, totally the opposite, where banks now have higher concentration of risk in assets and the capital requirements aren't high enough. 
You can see and hear the exact words from Donald's mouth. 
And anyone who lies to the families of Americans who have died in the service of this country can never be commander-in-chief of the United States. 
I voted against the war in Iraq because I thought unilateral military action would not produce the results that were necessary and would lead to the kind of unraveling and instability that we saw in the Middle East. 
There's 7 billion people across the face of the globe, many of whom want to come to this country. 
And in fact, Kissinger's actions in Cambodia, when the United States bombed that country, overthrew Prince Sihanouk, created the instability for Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge to come in, who then butchered some 3 million innocent people, one of the worst genocides in the history of the world. 
Our fracking industry, energy industry may have contributed 20,000, but if Mr. Trump understood that the real jobs come in the downstream, not in the upstream, but in the downstream. 
So we pay for this by do demanding that the wealthiest people and the largest corporations, who have gotten away with murder for years, start paying their fair share. 
Look, I think we are readier than we used to be, but it's a constant effort that has to be undertaken to make sure we are as ready as we need to be. 
Are there good corporations doing incredible cutting edge research and development? 
It does matter when the challenges don't come on a list of a piece of paper of what to vote yes or no every day, but when the problems come in from the people that you serve. 
And that's a tragedy because now it's harder and harder to actually solve this problem. 
The way it is structured right now, if you make it all the way to California, you could do pretty well. 
So between the oil and the banking, you will dry them up. 
Right now, they have $2.5 trillion, and in my opinion, it's much more than that. 
I've laid out a very aggressive plan to reign in Wall Street -- not just the big banks. 
The fact is that there was a great effort made by the Obama administration and others to really send a clear message, because we knew that so many of these children were being abused, being treated terribly while they tried to get to our border. 
We are not the world's policeman, but we need to stand up and be ready. 
I was very flattered when Henry Kissinger said I ran the State Department betterbetter than anybody had run it in a long time. 
And I'll tell you, that's why you want a governor. 
Here's the lessons of history: When we we pull back, voids are created. 
I think they know I have the experience, and that I'm a man that can give people hope and a sense that they have the opportunity rise. 
We didn't monitor the Facebook posting of the female San Bernardino terrorist because the Obama DHS thought it would be inappropriate. 
We have people across this country who are scared to death. 
And if we don't get it back fast, we're just going to go weaker, weaker and just disintegrate. 
So I will say this, though, Hugh was giving me name after name, Arab name, Arab name, and there are few people anywhere, anywhere that would have known those names. 
The way to take that away from them is to talk to our military officials and ask them, "what do you need in order to accomplish this goal?
We created a climate where parental notification took place. 
I have a three point plan that does not include American Ground forces. 
When the World Trade Center came down, I saw something that no place on Earth could have handled more beautifully, more humanely than New York. 
$500 billion in specific cuts five major agencies that I would eliminate. 
But there is a broad consensus on sensible gun safety regulations that I, coming from a state that has virtually no gun control, will do my best to bring together. 
And what we said is, if they're going to impose this on us, we better prepare to protect the state from it. 
I have not insulted Donald personally and I don't intend to. 
Can you imagine the chaos that would ensue at that point? 
I do not think we should promise or even look toward normalizing relations because we have a lot of other business to get done with Iran. 
And there is one line on there that stands out all the time. 
The millionaires and billionaires are doing great under Obama. 
We've lost anywhere between four and seven million jobs because of China. 
People will not come in unless they come in legally. 
And that means when police officers out in a community do illegal activity -- kill people who are unarmed who should not be killed, they must be held accountable. 
Now, I'm the only one up here who's had a law enforcement background as a U.S. Attorney after September 11th. 
But we found ways to work together on everything from...reforming foster care and adoption to the Children's Health Insurance Program, which insures...8 million kids. 
We have at least 11 million people in this country that came in illegally. 
What I did next, Rachel, is I had to retreat a little bit, I had to compromise. 
You know, the mother of the young man with his friends in the car who was playing loud music and, you know, some older white man pulled out a gun and shot him because they wouldn't turn the radio down. 
So I believe if you want to retain the White House, if you want to see Democrats do well across the board, I think our campaign is the one that creates the large voter turnout and helps us win. 
And so much of what we did to force competition, to use technology, to stand down the special interest groups can you imagine taking Medicaid from 10 to 2.5 percent? 
And they seem to think that that was what caused it. 
I'm interested in making what we have work better. 
And we were paying attention to the most important issue we have faced in a decade since 9/11, and then all the talk was about this proposal, which isn't going to happen. 
And if I were the prosecutor, that is exactly where they would be. 
That's how you get a more safe place is by making sure that we're fully engaged. 
I want to do more to help incentivize and create more small businesses. 
So we have a lot of work to do in this campaign to make it clear where we stand in the Democratic Party, what we will do for our country, and I look forward to this evening's discussion of real issues that face the American people. 
" We are going to re- look at it and I will support stronger provisions. ...
We can create a situation for our children to be able to get a decent job to pay down their college debt. 
I am the son of an immigrant who came legally from Cuba to seek the American dream. 
In the 1990s and all due respect in the 1990s, when I had the Republican leadership and Wall Street spending billions of dollars in lobbying, when the Clinton administration, when Alan Greenspan said, "what a great idea it would be to allow these huge banks to merge," Bernie Sanders fought them, and helped lead the opposition to deregulation. 
He brings up something from 30 years ago, it worked out very well. 
Low income people who are not involved in the political process. 
What is correct, and I'm disappointed that Secretary Clinton's campaign has made this criticism. 
We have to continue to work with the Iraqi army so that they are better prepared to advance on some of the other strongholds inside Iraq, like Mosul, when they are able to do so. 
Secondly, I'll tell you about Wall Street: There's too much greed. 
We should be encouraging the placement of the THAAD, the Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense, that seems to disturb not only the North Koreans but the Chinese as well. 
I hope you reconsider this, because this policy is a policy that makes it impossible to build the coalition necessary to take out ISIS. The Kurds are our strongest allies. 
And, if you're a moderate Islamist, you're not going to be able to survive either. 
Well, let me say it at the outset that everyone here understands everyone understands that how that the middle class has been left behind in the last seven years of the Obama economy, and we've got to bring jobs back. 
We need to build on the Affordable Care Act, do the things that work, and reduce costs and increase access. 
And we turned it all around with jobs and balanced budgets and rising credit and tax cuts, and the state is unified, and people have hope again in Ohio.
They lost a lot of money, everybody said it couldn't be done. 
Well, I definitely believe that he is unstable, and I do, in fact, believe that China has a lot more influence with him than we do. 
Let me just say something we've spent we've spent. 
Well, I think it's an important point the president made in his State of the Union. 
They come out of an act of love, whether you like it or not. 
And the question is, who is going to prosecute Hillary Clinton? 
Martha, I will tell you, I have visited with active duty military, with veterans over and over and over again in town halls all over the state of New Hampshire. 
That's the lesson of history, and, sadly, this president does not believe in American leadership. 
This president allows lawlessness throughout this country. 
Well, look the Joint Terrorism Task Force needs resources and tools. 
That's what and by the way, let me just tell you, we needed tickets. 
As we have 250,000 Syrians murdered, slaughtered; millions running around the world, running for their lives. 
What we are talking about in reality is a corrupt campaign finance system, that's what we're talking about. 
But whether it's Carl or so many others that we read about all the time they have used the laws of the land, which is the ...
Or we're going to ship 10 million Americans or 10 million people out of this country, leaving their children here in this country and dividing families? 
The Kurds are the greatest fighting force and our strongest allies. 
And by the way, Jeb you mentioned Boeing, take a look. 
Yeah, I would go, first of all, one step further in this description of Hillary Clinton. 
But I have great respect for the people I have met through this process. 
The reason I can end Common Core at the federal level is because Obama is abusing executive power using Race to the Top funds in the Department of Education to force it on the states. 
So I would say that the key doctrine of the Sanders administration would be no, we cannot continue to do it alone; we need to work in coalition. 
We should be supportive, but I do not support American ground troops in Syria. 
I congratulate Secretary of State John Kerry and the president for working on this agreement. 
So, my question to you is are you missing a huge opportunity to expand the Republican base? 
My dad came home from serving in the Army after having lost his father, worked in the Breyers ice cream plant in Newark, New Jersey. 
It's the evil government that is that is putting all these regulations on us so that we can't survive. 
And one of the things that I'm frankly most proud of is that in 2003, 2004, I was totally against going into Iraq because you're going to destabilize the Middle East. 
We either have a country or we don't have a country. 
Americans know that our nation is heading off the abyss of destruction, secondary to divisiveness, fiscal irresponsibility, and failure to lead. 
And, of course, I met the mothers of Eric Garner and Tamir Rice, and Michael Brown and Trayvon Martin and so many of them who have lost their children. 
America has always been reluctant to use military force. 
What I said was we had to put together a coalition in fact, something that I worked on before I left the State Department to do, and yes, that it should include Arabs, people in the region. 
So, I think the leadership on the island has to show their willingness to get their house in order and put in place measures allow the economy there to grow again. 
Well, I wanted to say, and I'll do it quickly, I was very pleased that leaders of President Obama's administration went out to Silicon Valley last week and began exactly this conversation about what we can do, consistent with privacy and security. 
And I believe they need to be defeated on the ground, by a ground force, made up primarily of Sunni Arabs. 
That's how I focused from the beginning of the campaign and it is how I intend to continue going forward. 
And once we do that, we will adopt common sense reforms, number one, we'll allow people to purchase health insurance across state lines that will drive down prices and expand the availability of low cost catastrophic insurance. 
The new normal of 2 percent puts huge demands on government. 
Well, to put that in a context, Judy, I think we have to understand that in the last 30 years in this country there has been a massive transfer of wealth going from the hands of working families into the top one-tenth of 1% whose percentage of wealth has doubled. 
Because we're balanced budgets, we're strong, we're job-friendly, we don't raise their taxes, and if we have a president that does that in America, we will get the economic growth, and that is what this country needs. 
And I would be willing to write mine off 100 percent, Dana. 
We have a strategy and a commitment to go after ISIS, which is a danger to us as well as the region...
This is another example of the lack of seriousness. 
Stimulating the economy because it's tethered down right now with so many regulations...
Well, Dana, I've known John Roberts for 20 years, he's amazingly talented lawyer, but, yes, it was a mistake when he was appointed to the Supreme Court. 
So making community college free, making it possible to attend a public college or university with debt free tuition, looking for ways to protect our rights especially from the concerted Republican assault; on voting rights, on women's rights, on gay rights, on civil rights, on workers rights. 
The middle class Anderson, and let me say something about the media, as well. 
O'MALLEY: ...so somebody please, go on to martinomalley.com.... 
It's never been that way in American politics before. 
I put together a coalition, including Arabs, with respect to Libya and a coalition to put sanctions onto Iran. 
First of all, John got lucky with a thing called fracking, OK? 
Well, there's no daylight on the basic premise that there should be no bank too big to fail and no individual too powerful to jail. 
We love the police, but we've got to be responsible to the people in the community. 
Going to them...and saying, "please, do the right thing"...is kind of naive. 
And, the drugs, I mean, it goes on, and on, and on. 
Which means, if you're an exporter if you're a farmer, if you're a rancher, if you're a manufacturer, you don't pay the businesses flat tax. 
In 2013 we had never faced a crisis like the Syrian refugee crisis now. 
Ted Cruz told your brother that he wanted John Roberts to be on the United States Supreme Court. 
Because most of the time, they're absolutely correct. 
As someone who has taken on probably every special interest that there is in Washington, I would lump Wall Street and the pharmaceutical industry at the top of my life of people who do not like me. 
And you should hope that our next president is someone that is influence by their faith. 
So please don't suggest that I think we normalize relations with Tehran tomorrow. 
Mr. Trump is touching a nerve because people want the wall to be built. 
Well, I just think you're asking a question with a false choice. 
We think, by the way, based on talking to our precinct captains, we may have at least two more delegates. 
You find me a Democrat you find me a Democrat that will cut spending ten dollars? 
We have to play a role in this be able to bring the rest of the world to this issue before it's too late. 
You've seen middle-class wages go backwards $3,700 during the Obama administration. 
And I want to thank the Congressional Black Caucus Institute and the people of Charleston for hosting us here on the eve of Martin Luther King Day tomorrow. 
And what is missing is the political will, because too many Democrats and, sadly, too many Republicans don't want to solve this problem. 
Sixty-three percent of the American people didn't vote, Anderson. 
Those are the kind of things that are going to send a clear message around the world. 
I think that I look at what's going on, I look at all of the polls, I do very, very well against Hillary Clinton. 
And that is what they told me when I was in Jordan in November. 
Harvard and Dartmouth says that Social Security's going to go insolvent in seven to eight years. 
And they say there will be no more charitable giving. 
Caucus for me on Monday night because if I am your nominee, I will unite this party and I will defeat Hillary Clinton and when I'm president, America's light will shine again and the 21 century will be a new American century.
And in the Bush administration, we would shift transportation dollars back to the states. 
And, you wouldn't think this beautiful place it's beautiful. 
You know, they feel like if they don't have a lobbyist, if they're not wealthy, that somehow they don't get to play. 
The difference the difference between eminent domain for public purpose as Donald said, roads and infrastructure, pipelines and all that that's for public purpose. 
This guy used a filthy, disgusting word on television, and he should be ashamed of himself, and he should apologize, OK? 
I want to make sure the wealthy pay their fair share, which they have not been doing. 
Changed welfare, went around the president to get welfare reform done. 
You know, we have this manipulation by the political class and by the media telling us who we're supposed to pick and how we're supposed to live. 
We are spending $80 billion a year locking up our fellow Americans. 
I just hope that by the end of this campaign there will be a lot more supporting me. 
They can't when they order the product and when they finally get the product it is taxed. 
And the reason that I dislike Obamacare is because the government comes in and tells the people which the nation is supposed to be centered on that we don't care what you think, this is what we're doing. 
There were some that voted for it because they wanted to keep it alive and they were afraid the whole program would expire. 
Because, you know what, God gives me unconditional love. 
They hate us because women drive in the United States. 
Today, we have antipoverty programs that don't cure poverty. 
Marco, Donald, Ted, John, we will not solve any of these problems by trying to destroy each other. 
And my plan goes so much further to try to prevent the problems of the future. 
But I want at some point to talk about a value-added tax and $11 trillion, $12 trillion tax cuts that will put our kids way deeper in the hole than they have been at this point. 
We allowed them we allowed a vacuum to emerge in Syria. 
For goodness sake, there is only one pro-American free enterprise democracy in the Middle East, it is the state of Israel. 
There's a reason Jimmy Carter said he would support Donald Trump over me, because he said Donald Trump is malleable, he has no fixed set of beliefs whereas Ted Cruz is not malleable. 
That's what I criticize Mitt Romney I mean, ran...
And we will not, under this proposal, have a situation that we have right now with the Affordable Care Act where you have states like South Carolina, and many other Republican states, that because of their right wing political ideology, are denying millions of people the expansion of Medicaid that we passed in the Affordable Care Act. 
We need to lift the burdens on small businesses so you have jobs, and we need welfare reform that gets people off of welfare and back to work. 
He voted in favor of regime change with Libya, voted in favor of the Security Council being an active participate in setting the parameters for what we would do, which of course we followed through on. 
So when you have childhood African-American poverty rates of 35 percent, when you have youth unemployment at 51 percent, when you have unbelievable rates of incarceration which, by the way, leaves the children back home without a dad or even a mother clearly, we are looking at institutional racism. 
O'MALLEY: Anderson, look, this is the big banks I mean, once we repealed Glass-Steagall back in the late 1999s (ph), the big banks, the six of them, went from controlling, what, the equivalent of 15 percent of our GDP to now 65 percent of our GDP. And (inaudible) right before this debate, Secretary Clinton's campaign put out a lot of reversals on positions on Keystone and many other things. 
My view is that when you have millions of seniors in this country trying to get by and I don't know how they do on $11,000, $12,000, $13,000 a year you don't cut Social Security, you expand it. 
So let's go back to the beginning of the Obama administration, when Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama led NATO in toppling the government in Libya. 
And if we continue those cuts that we're doing now, not to mention additional cuts, we are going to be left with the oldest and the smallest Air Force this country has ever had, and that leaves us less safe. 
I have never supported amnesty, and I led the fight against Chuck Schumer's gang of eight amnesty legislation in the Senate. 
But we're not going to hurt the people who have been paying into Social Security their whole life and then all of a sudden they're supposed to get less. 
If we can get that out, it makes a big difference. 
Our economy's flat, it's not creating the jobs it once did, and people struggle living paycheck to paycheck. 
Let's start talking about that on this stage and stop playing and stop playing the games. 
All three are critical for the defense of the country. 
We are one justice away from a Supreme Court that will reverse the Heller decision, one of Justice Scalia's seminal decisions, that upheld the Second Amendment right to keep and to bear arms. 
Well, first of all, I recognize that we have an incredible illegal immigration problem. 
They have affiliates in over a dozen countries now. 
I don't know the status, but I will certainly look into it. 
We've got to figure out how we can do more to understand who is saying what and what they're planning. 
He launched Fast and Furious, illegally selling guns to Mexican drug lords that were then used to shoot law enforcement officials. 
You know, maybe they're dumb and they don't know what they're going to get, but I don't think so. 
We know that they are deeply engaged in supporting Assad because they want to have a place in the Middle East. 
We do have to try to get the countries in the region to work with us to do everything we can to confine, and constrain them. 
So, there so, there is all sorts of intrigue about where I disagree with my brother, there would be one right there. 
One thing we understand, each one of those tax plans is better than the mess that we have right now. 
We have to give more tools to our folks to be able to do that, not fewer, and then trust those people and oversee them to do it the right way. 
They want to see illegal immigration come under control. 
First of all, you're talking about a border that's many, many times longer. 
Senator Sanders did vote five times against the Brady bill. 
The second point, it does not eliminate the corporate tax or the payroll tax. 
Right now, with our corporate income tax, giant corporations with armies of accountants regularly are paying little to no taxes while small businesses are getting hammered. 
Well, I am blessed to receive a word from God every day in receiving the scriptures and reading the scriptures. 
And I know how to do this because as governor of the state of Florida I created the first statewide voucher program in the country, the second statewide voucher program, in the country and the third statewide voucher program in the country. 
And then on second, we should be able to penetrate the Internet and find out exactly where ISIS is and everything about ISIS. 
What I said was I don't believe that I would be president of the United States and have the same dysfunction that exists in Washington, D.C. now. 
And I'm asking you tonight, America, to join hands with me to heal, inspire and revive America. 
A great country like us should find a way to have accommodations for people so that we can solve the problem in the right way. 
I think -- I'm not going to say that everybody is in agreement. 
The undermining of America on the global stage is not an accident. 
And the 21st century can be a new American century. 
Teddy Roosevelt said, we are a nation of immigrants. 
The idea I would dismantle health care in America while we're waiting to pass a Medicare for all is just not accurate. 
That is why ISIS then came over the border from Syria and back into Iraq. 
I amwill absolutely admit that Secretary Clinton has the support of far more governors, mayors, members of the House. 
Now...OK. We have a system of taxation in this country that is horribly wrong. 
They understand the vulnerabilities we have on the southern border. 
And you know how I know that Donald's Supreme Court justices will be liberals? 
And somebody walked in and shot them, killed them. 
Today, we are on pace to have the smallest Army since the end of World War II, the smallest Navy in 100 years, the smallest Air Force in our history. 
But I am pretty proud that we have over a million people who have contributed to our campaign averaging 27 bucks apiece. 
I come from a town where if the wind blew the wrong way, people found themselves out of work. 
I saw the images of these little children been gassed and poisoned by their own leaders, and we were angry. 
And I've been a supporter of Israel a strong supporter of Israel longer than anybody on this stage. 
I've already said, for me, the issue of life is not a political issue and I want to be frank. 
What I've seen up here I mean, first of all, this guy is a choke artist, and this guy is a liar. 
They see kids getting arrested for marijuana, getting in prison, getting a criminal record, while they see executives on Wall Street who pay billions of dollars in settlements and get no prosecution at all. 
In Syria, yes, a no-fly zone in the north on the Turkish border, a no-fly zone on the south on the Jordanian border. 
We cut the we eliminate a lot of deductions and cut the rates down. 
This campaign is not just about electing a president. 
And we are not even the largest carbon producer anymore, China is. 
If I become president, we will do something really special. 
I agree with Marco, I agree with Ted, we have no choice. 
That Apple phone didn't even belong to the killer. 
This country is facing an economy that has been radically transformed. 
Others chose to stand with Jeff Sessions and Steve King and the American people and secure the border. 
And at the end of the day they endorse me because they know I can get things done. 
You see, everybody, I want the people at home to think about this. 
We didn't go bankrupt like Trump did and call it success when people are laid off, when vendors don't get paid. 
What I'm suggesting is that we ought to have readiness being the first priority of our military, and secondly, that we make sure that the morale is high. 
The refugee issue will be solved if we destroy ISIS there, which means we need to have a no-fly zone, safe zones there for refugees and to build a military force. 
And there is no way to predict what comes in the door of that White House from day to day that can pose a threat to the United States or one of our friends and allies, and I think this is a big part of the job interview that we are all conducting with the voters here. 
What we need to do, Wolf, is restore those tools that have been taken away by the president and others, restore those tools to the NSA and to our entire surveillance and law enforcement community. 
I think that what Libya then did by having a full free election, which elected moderates, was an indication of their crying need and desire to get on the right path. 
And, that's why tonight I'm asking you for your vote.
That's not an A. One in seven people are living in poverty. 
I want to speak to all the moms and dads whose sons and daughters are fighting for this country, and the incredible sense of betrayal when you have a commander-in-chief who will not even speak the name of our enemy, radical Islamic terrorism, when you have a commander-in- chief who sends $150 billion to the Ayatollah Khamenei, who's responsible for murdering hundreds of our servicemen and women. 
The difference is, when somebody else uses those laws, nobody writes about it. 
It also, by the way, funds the Iron Dome and other important programs. 
And I don't mind having a big beautiful door in that wall so that people can come into this country legally. 
And we must work more closely with Muslim-American communities. 
And I don't believe the federal government should be involved in the creation of standards directly or indirectly, the creation of curriculum or content. 
What we need is leadership in this country which revitalizes American democracy, and makes people understand that if they stand up and fight back and take on the billionaire class, we can bring about the change that we need. 
I am absolutely supportive of comprehensive immigration reform and a path towards citizenship for 11 million people today who are living in the shadows. 
You know, we now have power under the Dodd-Frank legislation to break up banks. 
We will provide essential, unique capabilities that we have, but the Europeans and the Arabs had to be first over the line. 
Quit engaging in these kinds of speculative behaviors.
Akin to slavery, where people came into this country to do guest work were abused, were exploited, and if they stood up for their rights, they'd be thrown out of this country. 
Under her leadership, radical Islamic terrorism has been on to the rise. 
I'm proud of my dad, and I'm certainly proud of my brother. 
But now as I travel the country, people say what I feel. 
The Republican party, since I've been in the Senate, and since President Obama has been in office, has played a terrible, terrible role of being total obstructionists. 
It's the people that pull the trigger and we have to find out what is going on. 
And I think that, given the threat that ISIS poses to the region and beyond, as we have sadly seen in our own country, it is important to keep the Iraqi army on a path where they can actually take back territory, to work with the Sunni tribes in Anbar province and elsewhere so that their fighters can be also deployed, to work with the Kurds to provide them the support, but they're doing the fighting. 
I would like the federal government to offer $10 billion over ten years to work with states, and I really applaud Governor Hassan for taking up this challenge and working with the legislature here to come up with a plan. 
You know, I have spent much of my adult life enforcing the law and defending the Constitution. 
But of the over 400,000 jobs that we've created in the state, we think maybe 15,000 are connected to this industry, because it's early-stage. 
The waters of the United States act, which is going to be devastating for agriculture and many industries, we should repeal that. 
Yeah, but that because the math is, if you 5 percent of a million is a lot more than 5 percent of a thousand. 
Yes, I do believe that we must end corporate loopholes, such that major corporations year after year pay virtually zero in federal income tax, because they're stashing the money in the Cayman Islands. 
You know, I have to say, I was very pleased when Governor O'Malley endorsed me for president in 2008, and I enjoyed his strong support in that campaign. 
The middle class of this country for the last 40 years has been disappearing. 
The medieval times I mean, we studied medieval times not since medieval times have people seen what's going on. 
Listen, I want to talk to the audience at home for a second. 
Well, I think I am, and to me, I view the word conservative as a derivative I of of the word conserve. 
I think he's going to do it whether or I'm O.K. with it or not. 
There is a difference between Iraq, where you have Sunni, Shia, and Kurds put together after the First World War by the Western powers. 
And that's why I've advocated a proportional tax system. 
And the last line standing between them and our families might be us and a gun. 
If I thought that raising the minimum wage was the best way to help people increase their pay, I would be all for it, but it isn't. 
But, here's the beauty of it, it's not just balancing a budget, it's about jobs. 
Nobody knows who Mossadegh was, democratically-elected prime minister of Iran. 
I'm not going to have something that Ted described in his tax plan. 
So this has to be looked at overall, and we have to go at it from every possible angle. 
But I think they will see a very good option here. 
A lot of work that we have do is going to be incredibly hard. 
And make sure you enhance savings in the private market. 
But I would probably have my children run it with my executives and I wouldn't ever be involved because I wouldn't care about anything but our country, anything. 
I actually started the negotiations that led to the nuclear agreement, sending some much my closest aides to begin the conversations with the Iranians. 
But you know, today is the 105th anniversary, or 105th birthday of Ronald Reagan. 
Well, I think we have to focus, Hugh, on exactly what the priorities are. 
I think you do have a humanitarian tragedy there, as I mentioned a moment ago. 
That's why we have this abnormal situation going on right now. 
In this case, our staff did the wrong thing -- they looked at that information. 
But we are going to move on top of that to a Medicaid-for-all system. 
And he said, you know, if you give me a tithe, it doesn't matter how much you made. 
We have millions of people right now on line trying to come into this country. 
I watched the other senators laughing and smiling. 
And we do need China Donald's right about North Korea. 
You have radical jihadists in dozens of countries across multiple continents. 
He went back, it was a mistake, it wasn't a mistake. 
They do bear some responsibility, but I think he probably didn't do it, not for that reason. 
And it is easy to talk the talk about ending Citizens United, but what I think we need to do is show by example that we are prepared to not rely on large corporations and Wall Street for campaign contributions, and that's what I'm doing. 
As far as being an outsider is concerned as far as being an outsider is concerned, let me tell you this, Jake, I'm a Republican in New Jersey. 
And when I'm elected president, this will become once again, the single greatest nation in the history of the world, not the disaster Barack Obama has imposed upon us. 
We have to show what life is really like in ISIS territory, and we have to show them why ISIS is not invincible, by going out and conducting these attacks and publicizing them to those who they recruit. 
It is now clear that the only way to make progress on immigration is not just to pass a law that enforces the law, but actually prove to people that it's working. 
And as president I will solve this problem and secure the border. 
Now I am the only candidate up here that doesn't have a super PAC. I am not asking Wall Street or the billionaires for money. 
I don't know many people in America who don't think that we should, and in my state, we're trying to figure out how to get it done, because we are threatened with the federal government taking all of our Medicaid money away. 
And you think about the reasons that we're having such difficulty right now with our job market. 
I've spent my whole life fighting to defend the Bill of Rights and the Constitution. 
I have put it on the table that I would leave to see regime change in North Korea. 
And if they have to be in the Middle East for 20 or 30 years no problem. 
Before the oil went down, now they're making less, but they're making plenty. 
They are worried to death about the future of their kids. 
Look, I've been involved in national security for a long time. 
Now, if we need to embed Special Forces to direct our overwhelming air power, if it is required to use ground troops to defeat ISIS, we should use them, but we ought to start with using our incredible air power advantage. 
To get the information from Hillary Clinton, you need to get a subpoena from the FBI. 
The fact that each amendment didn't fix every problem didn't mean that I supported the rest of the bill. 
To build bridges between our community in law enforcement so we can get intelligence and information from these folks. 
We created greater regulation on abortion clinics, where there were horrific procedures. 
And I will tell you that what those people wanted and what they deserved was for America to answer back against what had been done to them. 
And we have to lead, if we're going to be successful. 
This was not just some like, we picked up her just for the heck of it, alright? 
Well, what I said, after we seal the borders, after we turn off the spigot that dispenses all the goodies so we don't have people coming in here, including employment, that people who had a pristine record, we should consider allowing them to become guest workers, primarily in the agricultural sphere, because that's the place where Americans don't seem to want to work. 
I want to ask you: Are you fed up with how Washington taxes you? 
We're losing now over $500 billion in terms of imbalance with China, $75 billion a year imbalance with Japan. 
We are going to make our country great, and we're going to do the right thing. 
We need to start focusing on this earlier, before they become veterans so that there's a customized plan so people don't fall through the cracks. 
And more importantly, people are really struggling right now. 
And that's why this study, which shows that if you can believe it today, for white working class people between 45 and 54, life expectancy is actually going down. 
But I think the goal has go to be as we've done with Cuba, to move in warm relations with a very powerful and important country in this world. 
But we have to restore policing that will actually protect the communities that police officers are sworn to protect. 
There have been 70-plus attacks in 17 countries, either inspired by ISIS or organized by ISIS, Libya being the most important one now. 
What I am very happy in this campaign that we have had rallies with tens of thousands of people, mostly young people. 
Well, there are some people in Florida upset at me over a joke I made about Florida State, but, what the heck, I want my codename to be Gator. 
And I know that term gets my Republican friends nervous. 
They violate the deal, we put on the sanctions, and we have the high moral ground to talk to our allies in Europe to get them to go with us. 
I was going to ask you to wake me up when that time came. 
I have promised to rescind every single illegal executive action, including that one. 
We have problems with North Korea where they actually have nuclear weapons. 
And in that capacity, I met with just an extraordinary group of people from World War II, from korea, vietnam, all of the wars. 
But it is not only the government that we have to worry about, it is private corporations. 
And with his passing, the court is now hanging in the balance. 
They want to see all of these things working, and then they will have a conversation with you about what do you do with people that have been here a long time that are otherwise, you know, not criminals. 
Number two, I currently employ thousands of Hispanics, and over the years, I've employed tens of thousands of Hispanics. 
But we have to be extremely vigilant and extremely careful when it comes to nuclear. 
Dana, in a way that maximizes their value for sale for profit. 
Those three things put together are going to give confidence to job creators and you will begin to see wages rise. 
And to allow Russia now to have influence in Syria makes it harder, but we need to destroy ISIS and dispose of Assad to create a stable Syria so that the four million refugees aren't a breeding ground for Islamic jihadists. 
So, there does need to be a whole of government approach, but just because we're involved and we have a strategy doesn't mean we're going to be able to dictate the outcome. 
If we're willing to do what it takes now, the 21st century is going to be the new American century, greater than any other era we've had in the history of this great nation. 
In the same light, as the foreign leader, Winston Churchill's politics were not my politics. 
The first Persian Gulf War, we launched 1,100 air attacks a day. 
We are in much better shape than we were seven years ago, although my Republican colleagues seem to have forgotten where we were seven years ago. 
Ben is a good and honorable man and Ben and Candy have become friends. 
And when you have that formula, combined with work force that's trained, you can explode the economy and create many jobs. 
And, you know, we need to be doing lots of other things with the resources that we have. 
Under Hillary Clinton, and Barack Obama, we have seen a weakness that now creates huge problems for the next president of the United States. 
Well, first of all, thank you not asking me what I said in the 10th grade. 
Because I could tell you this, as a former federal prosecutor, if a center for the developmentally disabled in San Bernardino, California, is now a target for terrorists, that means everywhere in America is a target for these terrorists. 
They did it because they wanted to promote democracy. 
And, I'll tell you one other thing, you know why the Republican party will want to take a chance on me? 
If you delay and you wait, the Washington operators will take you down. 
I campaigned in the state of Iowa four-square against the ethanol mandate, something everyone said was political suicide. 
And everybody said "Oh, he didn't say anything wrong." 
I'm a committed, conservative reformer that cut taxes, that balanced budgets, that took on the special interest in Florida, and we won. 
As a former United States attorney who spent seven years of my life fighting this on the streets of my state, I would do that. 
But the United States is not the policeman of the world. 
We also want to dominate this from a commercial side. 
But, if there was an opportunity to remove the leader of North Korea and create stability? 
And, what we talk about tonight, it's not about us, it's about the people in the audience tonight, because in seven short years this president has stripped away their trust, and their faith, and their belief that the next generation will have a better life. 
We should have debt-free college if you go to a public college or university. 
Maria, I'd like to interrupt this on the floor of the Senate to actually answer the question you asked, which was on entitlements. 
It means that you believe that this institution that's been around for millenial is an important cornerstone of society. 
Because if that were the case and we were not in charge of the Senate, Harry Reid and Barack Obama would ram down our throat a liberal justice, like the ones Barack Obama has imposed on us already. 
They don't want to raise the minimum wage; they don't want to do anything to increase incomes. 
She is disagreeing with FDR on Social Security, LBJ on Medicare and with the vast majority of progressive Democrats in the House and the Senate, who today are fighting to end the disgrace of the United States being the only major country on Earth that doesn't provide paid family and medical leave. 
But we also need to have an entry/exit tracking system. 
And that, I think, is a much better approach than Obamacare, which, by the way, isn't just bad for health care, it's bad for our economy. 
But what I know to be true is that the next president of the United States is going to have to fix an extraordinary difficult situation. 
I believe that our campaign up to now has shown that we can create an enormous amount of enthusiasm from working people, from young people, who will get involved in the political process and which will drive us to a very large voter turnout. 
He voted against doing research to figure out how we can save lives. 
There's 6 million people living in poverty today, more than when Barack Obama got elected. 
Lawrence Tribe and from Harvard of Harvard, said that there is a serious question as to whether or not Ted can do this. 
Well, John, let me concur with you and with all Americans who are shocked and disgusted by what we saw in Paris yesterday. 
As we look out at our country today, what the American people understand is we have an economy that's rigged, that ordinary Americans are working longer hours for lower wages, 47 million people living in poverty, and almost all of the new income and wealth going to the top one percent. 
And actually to pay, we pay them based on how well they keep patients out of the hospital. 
If we get this wrong, if we nominate the wrong candidates, the Second Amendment, life, marriage, religious liberty every one of those hangs in the balance. 
Our Navy is at its smallest size since 1917; our Air Force, since 1940. 
And one thing on the vets during the last debate, I raised $6 million for the vets, and I will tell you something I will tell you that I think nobody here, nobody on this stage, gets along with the veterans groups in New Hampshire better than I do without ball (ph) to sarel (ph) and all of the people that I deal with and these are great people. 
So, yes, I do think it would be a terrible oversight not to try to address the very real problems that white Americans particularly those without a lot of education whose jobs have you know, no longer provided them or even no longer present in their communities, because we have to focus where the real hurt is. 
They could have taken Assad out, and because we did nothing, the Russians are in, and they're sitting in the catbird seat. 
And as president, I will rebuild the military and keep this country safe. "13 Hours" tomorrow morning, a new movie will debut about the incredible bravery of the men fighting for their lives in Benghazi and the politicians that abandoned them. 
I've seen both sides, but some of the greatest scholars agree with me, without having to go through Congress. 
Now, all of a sudden everybody's saying, "take the oil.
And if we don't tie their hands behind their back, they will do it extremely effectively. 
If we had guns in California on the other side where the bullets went in the different direction, you wouldn't have 14 or 15 people dead right now. 
First what they saw in Paris, now what they have seen in San Bernardino. 
I don't know anything about...starting a university, and that was a fake university. 
Second of all, and I speak as a mayor who worked very closely and well with police officers, the vast majority of whom are honest, hard- working people trying to do a difficult job, but let us be clear. 
I have balanced budgets, the federal budget, the state of Ohio budget, we're running a $2 billion dollar surplus, we're up 400,000 jobs, and in Washington we were able to have significant job growth whenever we balanced the budget of which I was the architect. 
So we now know that he has a mixed record to say the least and we have to figure out how to deal with him. 
When you have six financial institutions in this country that issue two-thirds of the credit cards and one-third of the mortgages, when three out of four of them are larger today than when we bailed them out because they are too big to fail, we've got to re- establish Glass-Steagall, we have got to break the large financial institutions up. 
I think what Secretary Carter is seeing, and I'm glad he is, is that we got to get NATO back working for the common defense. 
And we have to take properly vetted refugees ourselves. 
I know how important it is that we have a Democrat succeed President Obama in the White House. 
This deal, on its face, will send over $100 billion to the Ayatollah Khamenei, making the Obama administration the world's leading financier of radical Islamic terrorism. 
And let me tell you, at the end, the Saudis have agreed to put together a coalition inside of Syria to stabilize that country. 
We can't go and I watched Lindsey Graham, he said, I have been here for 10 years fighting. 
I think Snowden played a very important role in educating the American people to the degree in which our civil liberties and our constitutional rights are being undermined. 
When you go from $8 billion in the hole to $2 billion in the black, when you cut taxes by $5 billion and you grow over 400,000 jobs, that is a record that I can take to Washington, using the same formula that I used in Washington when I was part of the effort to balance the budget to give us a surplus and to create jobs. 
You find a Democrat that's for cutting taxes cutting spending ten dollars, I'll give them a warm kiss. 
Well, should we do a Super PAC, but I concluded, honestly, I don't represent Corporate America or billionaires, I didn't want it. 
Number two, we should expand health savings accounts so people can save in a tax-advantaged way for more routine healthcare needs. 
And you can I think you can look back in hindsight and say a couple of things, but he kept us safe. 
President Obama almost reflexively always says the same thing. 
They know what air power looks like when the United States is committed to the cause. 
but Chuck, it is a public financing system that everybody knows is antiquated. 
We have many, many companies that are leaving this country. 
And I laid out that strategy before the attacks in Paris and before the attacks in San Bernardino. 
And, I'll give you an example of that, which is the Congressional exemption from Obamacare, which is fundamentally wrong, and I'll tell you this, if I'm elected president, I will veto any statute that exempts members of congress. 
That is like asking the arsonist to come and pour more gas on the fire. 
And I have been as transparent as I know to be, turning over 55,000 pages of my e-mails, asking that they be made public. 
First of all, Ohio does have an energy industry, but we're diversified. 
I've been challenged by so many people, and I don't frankly have time for total political correctness. 
The lack of leadership in this country by Barack Obama, John Kerry, Hillary Clinton, thinking that this is a policy that works, this policy of containment with ISIS. 
I understand that this is the hardest job in the world. 
Who actually has stood up not just to Democrats, but to leaders in our own party? 
You said that his strategy of self- deportation is why he lost the election. 
The most important job any of us will ever do is the job of being a president (sic), because the most important institution in society is the family. 
And if Senator Paul thinks that the only victim is the person, look at the decrease in productivity, look at the way people get used and move on to other drugs when they use marijuana as a gateway drug, it is not them that are the only victims. 
So, I fully agree that we should not allow a judge to be appointed during his time. 
We've got to do more to support our partners in NATO, and we have to send a very clear message to Putin that this kind of belligerence, that this kind of testing of boundaries will have to be responded to. 
The most powerful intelligence agency in the world is going to tell us where we are, the most powerful military in the world is going to destroy them. 
But on the other hand, there are many corporations who have turned their backs on the American worker, who have said, if I can make another nickel in profit by going to China and shutting down in the United States of America, that's what I will do. 
But let's not but let's not let's not insult let's not insult the intelligence of the American people. 
There are 800,000 cops on the beat, they ought to be trained to be the eyes and ears for law enforcement for the threat against terror as well as for immigration. 
And, frankly, I think we need a president who knows what he believes in, is willing to say it on day one, not at the end of his term when it's somebody else's problem. 
But we should be using our brilliant people, our most brilliant minds to figure a way that ISIS cannot use the Internet. 
And I think we've got to be really thoughtful about how we're going to afford what we proposed, which is why everything that I have proposed I will tell you exactly how I'm going to pay for it; including college. 
She believes that organization, which engages in the systematic murder of children in the womb, in order to maximize the value of their body parts for sale on the open market, is an acceptable position. 
The Koch Brothers have a very clear political agenda. 
I would hope that you would come onboard and say that this is the simple and straightforward thing to do. 
And you haven't excuse me, you haven't heard that. 
We have the highest rate of childhood poverty, and we're the only country in the world -- virtually the only country that doesn't guarantee paid family and medical leave. 
And the root of that word, progressive, is progress. 
I want to end the international embarrassment of the United States of America being the only major country on earth that doesn't guarantee health care to all people as a right, not a privilege. 
An individual who at Benghazi, which I will never let go, quite frankly, because I think of those two men who went up there on the top of that compound with machine guns, firing away, allowing their colleagues to escape. 
And I think for the 11 million or 11.5 million Americans the illegals that are here, if they have not committed a crime since they've been here, I'd make them pay a fine, some back taxes, maybe some community service. 
And you know, I when I got into this race, I decided to look under the hood of the engine of what runs Washington, D.C., and my first inclination was to run away, but I didn't do it because I'm thinking about our children and the fact that we are the United States of America. 
I think I'm the person best prepared to take the case to the Republicans. 
Now, I for seven years was the U.S. Attorney of New Jersey. 
Imy dad came to this country at the age of 17 from Poland. 
There are a lot of training programs and education programs that I think can be streamlined and put into a much better format so that if we do continue them they can be more useful, in public schools, community colleges, and colleges and universities. 
It's about free enterprise, which is an economic model that allows everyone to rise without pulling anyone down. 
That will be what I will do if I'm elected president. 
In 2017, it will be impossible for us to pay for it if you look at what's going on. 
Subsequent to that initial report, Ben's campaign put out a statement saying that he was not suspending his campaign. 
I am proud that last year we helped change the law. 
We are not going to be controlled by people that are special interests and lobbyists that everybody here has contributed to. 
Secondly, I never wrote a check to Planned Parenthood. 
If I couldif I could...respectfully addlook, we did differ. 
And as president, that's what I will work hard on. 
Ted, do you...Did Ted Cruz fight to support legalizing people that are in this country illegally? 
A family doesn't want dad or mom going home in a box. 
But, we have somebody over there, a madman, who already has nuclear weapons we don't talk about that. 
And, to provide safe zones so that people are not going to have to be flooding out of Syria at the rate they are. 
is end over-policing in African-American neighborhoods. 
And I said if you let it run, that I hate the concept of abortion. 
Carl said, "no, no " but he's somebody these are the kind of people that we should use to negotiate and not the China people that we have who are political hacks who don't know what they're doing and we have problems like this. 
Hundreds of thousands of you drafted me to run for president And, I am going to with the help of God, and you, once again place the American people at the pinnacle with the government there to serve it.
There's a reason the NRA gave me their Carter Knight Freedom Fund award and there's a reason, when Barack Obama and Chuck Schumer came after our right to keep and bear arms, that I led the opposition, along with millions of Americans we defeated that gun control legislation. 
They're not going to turn into stockbrokers overnight or open up a chain of car washes. 
I believe that is true, and that's why I'm not anxious to give away American values and principles for the sake of political correctness.
I just want to say, I agree with that 100 percent, except pre-existing conditions, I would absolutely get rid of Obamacare. 
This is the worst president we've had in 35 years, 35 years back would have made it Jimmy Carter. 
Turns out that they were crooks, and they destroyed our economy. 
But you gave him a check and called for him to be impeached. 
Because we're not going to destroy our economy the way the left-wing government that we are under now wants to do. 
We're not going to tear up the Affordable Care Act. 
And last but not least, we need to repeal Dodd-Frank. 
The American people want to know whether we're going to have a democracy or an oligarchy as a result of Citizens Union. 
But when the folks of Iowa found out the true facts of the job that you've done in Wisconsin, all of a sudden you, tubed (ph), he was No. 1 and now he's No. 6 or seven in the polls. 
I can tell you that adding up the fact you're not paying any private insurance, businesses are not paying any private insurance. 
We would have been better off if the politicians took a day off instead of going into war. 
Passing a simple flat tax that abolishes the I.R.S. is not going to be easy, but if we stand with the American people, we can do it. 
And I want to make sure that I can look into the eyes of any middle-class American and say, "this will help raise your wages." 
For the last seven years, the people of New Hampshire are smart. 
Some of the most iconic assets anywhere in the world. 
They're coming from Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras. 
The Armed Forces Radio is here listening to this today. 
When you're responding to an immediate incident, you need to know the intelligence of what's occurring. 
And I think you need to be pro-life for more than just the time in the womb. 
By having the elected officials and the leaders realize they're Americans before they're Republicans or Democrats. 
And the way we've done it properly through regulatory action, not buy signing unconstitutional executive orders. 
The law itself requires a background check, but that didn't fulfill their part of the bargain within the time that they were supposed to do. 
Our roads, our bridges, our schools, our airports, and we have to start investing money in our country. 
get if we elect a big government liberal like Hillary Clinton to the White House. 
The police in this country have done an unbelievable job of keeping law and order, and they're afraid for their jobs, they're afraid of the mistreatment they get, and I'm telling you that not only, me speaking, minorities all over the country, they respect the police of this country and we have to give them more respect. 
She worked -- and many of us supported you -- in trying to rebuild that devastation. 
But everyone understands that the values in New York City are socially liberal or pro-abortion or pro- gay-marriage, focus around money and the media. 
And his moral clarity, the message that he conveyed that evening really stayed with me and helped to set me on a path to service. 
You listen to that, you're going to be there for another 15...
Do you know how many illegal aliens, George W. Bush deported? 
And I've said I will use that power if they pose a systemic risk. 
They are increasingly involved now in attacks in Yemen. 
This administration cut a deal with their mortal enemies, the Shia, in Iran. 
Our pensions are secure and our credit is rock solid. 
The problem with the Obama administration is that they see this incrementally. 
I wouldn't have drawn the line, but once he drew it, he had no choice but to go across. 
That's why he passed Obamacare and the stimulus and Dodd-Frank and the deal with Iran. 
Now, everybody's coming to me, they're all trying to say, well, he's right, we have to come to him. 
And we have to have an attitude when we're in government of serving-hood. 
So the other alternative was to ask working families and the middle class to help out in a transformational campaign. 
We hate all the Muslims, because all of the Muslims are terrorists. 
If you want to get rid of poverty, get rid of all the regulations. 
And someone invited him to Clay Road Baptist Church. 
So to my mind, what we have got to do is wage a political revolution where millions of people have given up on the political process, stand up and fight back, demand the government that represents us and not just a handful of campaign contributioncontributors. 
But in terms of the early statesIowa, New Hampshire, the other statesit just doesn't work. 
Not just the hacking of OPM, but that is that is just shameful. 
We last year there was an additional 81,000 pages of government regulations. 
